We're just observing obviously a pretty
frothy set of markets right now.
>> It is about tech and I think it's
something to keep an eye on.
>> I do think there's a statement of pause
here, right? We have to see these
earnings come through. I think we could
get a little bit of rockiness. I think
the rally can stay for at least through
the summer. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Monday, we have a deal.
>> We've reached a deal. I think you were
saying this is probably the biggest deal
ever reached in any capacity.
>> We have a deal and it's a big deal. It's
a huge deal. It's 15% tariffs across the
board, all inclus inclusive.
>> I think it's the biggest deal ever made.
Thank you very much. Congratulations.
>> The United States and the European Union
striking a trade deal heading into a
huge week packed with the latest
economic data, plus earnings from some
of the biggest companies on the planet.
Big tech results just around the corner.
>> A lot to digest. We have to focus in on
what we're getting this week, which is
Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Meta all
reporting this week. If you look just
the 162 companies that are reporting
this week from the S&P 500, you
understand what a busy week this is.
Julian Emanuel though pointed out the
fact that we're getting trade deals,
we're getting the tech earnings, we're
getting Fed data, we're getting the Fed
meeting, we're also getting jobs data
that comes on Friday. As he said, it
makes it truly a moment of truth for
markets.
>> Let's unpack some of this and start with
the deal over the weekend. A 15% tariff.
And just notice the difference between
the Europeans and the White House. The
Europeans are celebrating stability. The
White House is celebrating asymmetry.
There is a big difference between the
two.
>> It is a messaging uh instrument. And if
you want to have the judge, take a look
at the euro versus the dollar this
morning. And you can see the euro is
weakening versus the dollar. So if the
market is deciding, they are saying that
the US maybe got the better deal when
they're talking about asymmetry. And
they're talking about how the US is
demanding a tariff rate that went from
2.5%
to 15% and Europe is celebrating. The
economic story is yet to be written.
Let's be clear about that. But over the
weekend, that's a major win for the
president of the United States. And we
move on. Maybe delay things again with
the Chinese for another 90 days. We move
on to a Federal Reserve decision this
week and economic data with payrolls on
Friday.
>> And really, when you tie that together,
we haven't really seen the full
ramifications of any of these tariffs.
And that really becomes the ultimate
existential question when it comes to
the economic data as well as for the
Federal Reserve. How much will we see
inflation come through? Are we going to
see more of a hit for earnings? And one
thing Lori Kavcina of RBC Capital came
out with was that we haven't heard a lot
of guidance for 2026. So, everyone is
trading as though 2026 is really what
you have to focus on and then give us no
guidance as to what it's going to look
like. Try to square that circle and
that's sort of where we are.
>> We're not flying blind anymore. Alltime
highs in this equity market. We add some
weight to it. Equity futures positive by
a quarter of 1%. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Steve Chevron as
stocks look for a sixth straight day of
gains. Kate Kukowitz, the former Trump
White House trade official as the US and
EU strike a deal. And Scott Anderson of
Beimo looking ahead to Wednesday's Fed
decision. We begin this hour with our
top story. President Donald Trump
striking a trade deal with the EU. Our
team coverage starts right now with
Lizzie Burden in Tbury and Oliver Crook
in Stockholm. Lizzy, walk us through the
basics of what we agreed over the
weekend.
Well, this is a hole in one, John. Maybe
more for Donald Trump than Ursula
Vanderly. and the European Commission
president dropping in to turnbury
yesterday to agree this deal 15% US
tariffs on most EU goods as you note
that is higher than the other way round
but Vunderion admits that they need to
redress the imbalance in trade now to
get this over the line of course there
had to be a sweetener to get the closer
to get this deal and that includes $750
billion that the EU is going to spend on
US energy products $600 billion that the
EU is going to invest further into the
US economy and vast amounts of money to
be spent on US military equipment. It
still needs to go past all the EU member
states. Still needs to get that stamp of
approval. There could be push back, but
for now there is relief that there is
certainty.
>> Ali Kro, it's a big deal. It's a big
agreement and it looks very, very
lopsided. Have the European member
states reacted to this?
I don't think we have his microphone.
Ollie, we're going to come back to you
maybe a couple of minutes time and we'll
get that reestablished. Ollie Crook
there alongside Lizzie Burden with the
latest. European member states signing
up for something that doesn't look good
>> and some of them are actually rallying
around it and saying great good job
Frederick Mirz of uh of Germany coming
out with a really positive stance a
little bit less positive maybe from
France. When you hear from the German
automakers, maybe a little less
exciting. When you're expecting a storm,
when you're expecting a hurricane and
you get just simply an average storm,
maybe it seems better than you otherwise
would. So, a little bit of descent on
the margins.
>> Here's the view on Wall Street so far
this morning. Steve chevron of Federated
saying the following. It's hard not to
remain constructive with key headline
risk behind us. Economic fundamentals
still solid and companies that continue
to be expectations. Steve joins us now
for more. Steve, good morning. Good to
see you.
>> How are you? We understand the tariffs.
Do we understand the consequences?
>> I think what what we've done is boiled
the frog slowly, right? If you would
have said a year ago that we were going
to be at essentially a 15% kind of
across the board tariff, I think, you
know, markets would have had some
digestion, but we kind of got there
slowly, right? We got there through a
big threat of even higher tariffs and
then we kind of settled in at 10 and now
it looks like 15's that's number. You
know, what will be the impact over time?
Who knows? I think what we've seen
though and what Wall Street's saying is
that we can handle this, right? If you
think about a 15% kind of across the
board tariff on companies where maybe
cost of goods sold are 60 70%. You
assume half of that is maybe borne by
the US taxpayer, maybe half of it is
eaten up either through currency moves
or foreign payers. It does it have an
impact? Sure, but it's not huge. And on
the other side of that tariff revenue
was the ability of the federal
government to cut taxes over the next 10
years somewhere in the neighborhood of
$6 trillion. So all in it looks like
it's domestic stimulus just not anything
that's so large that it threatens the
deficit or or inflation. So by the
rumor, by the news, is that essentially
what everyone is comfortable with at a
time when we haven't seen the full
ramifications been borne out, but at the
same time, it seems like companies are
coming up with a path and enough
visibility to give you confidence that
they can manage through this.
>> Yeah, I think this week is kind of a
microcosm of what's going to happen in
the market. Um, I think, you know,
tariff headline risk, I mean, it's
there's still going to be some tariff
headline risk, but the bulk of it behind
us, right? Most of the major trade
partners are kind of in the bag in terms
of deals. Now, uh the tax policy is
behind us with the passage of the one
big beautiful bill. And now the focus
shifts to the two things that are going
to be in focus this week. One, the Fed
and what that path towards rate cuts
look like. It's probably not this week,
but it probably is something coming in
September with maybe some dissense this
week to preview that. And then secondly,
earnings because the market has moved
significantly here. We're we're near a
23 times multiple on the S&P, which is
fine if earnings continue to beat. And
starting next quarter, we start getting
those those 2016 guidances that really
start to come out and support where the
market is. And so, I think there is a a
little bit of a handing off of the baton
here from trade and taxes to the Fed and
earnings and we'll see how it goes.
>> So, when it comes to earnings, what do
you have to see to get more bullish in
terms of both guidance and in terms of
what they're actually doing right now? I
think this quarter is not the important
one, right? That coming into this
quarter and the reporting period, you
still had the uncertainty around
tariffs. You still had the uncertainty
around tax policy. It's really next
quarter. So, you know, this quarter,
let's get through the rest of it. Right
now, the beat rates been good. 80% of
companies have beaten. They're not
necessarily beating by a huge magnitude,
but but it's enough to get through this
season. It's really Q3 because now
you'll have all of your policy places in
place. And what we expect is you'll see
a beaten raise and this market will grow
into its multiple. But we need to see
that happen, you know, starting in in
October.
>> Do you think investors will be in a
forgiving mood in the meantime?
>> Well, they have been. I mean, if you
look at the double beats this quarter,
if you're beating on both top line and
bottom line, your stock has done quite
well. And the percentage of companies
beating on the top line is greater than
what you you see on average. And so, I
think that's the story. We know
underlying demand is pretty good.
markets a little bit more forgiving on
on the margin right now because of some
of the uncertainties that have been in
place. I I think what really happens
next quarter though is do I continue to
believe in the 26 earnings number? Now
so far it looks like estimates for both
this year and last year have bottomed
and are moving up and if that trend
continues then I think we're still on
solid foot.
>> Does that forgiving mood apply to the
economic data as well? Because that's
something we're trying to figure out
going into Friday. Friday payrolls is an
interesting one because you might get
something north of 100k and if we get
something south of 100k we'll get a lot
of economists come on this program tell
Lisa and Maria and me that that's okay.
That's a supply side story. Yeah. So I
think there's a couple of things that
are at play here too and one of which is
important which is the market is
preparing for a Fed rate cut. And when
you're preparing for a Fed rate cut data
that's soft but not catastrophic can be
viewed bullishly. And so I I do think
we're in that kind of scenario where if
if the economic data is so hot that it
takes the Fed off of the, you know, off
the table, that's bad. If it's so cold
that it looks like the Fed is very much
behind the curve, that's bad. Everything
else in between, which is really the
bulk of the probability, is viewed as
okay right now. An economy that's
slowing but not falling off of a cliff
is one that you can invest in and where
the Fed is likely to step in with rate
cuts. And I think that's what the market
is is comfortable with right now. So
terrible news is bad news, but bad news
is good news for markets. I know that
Stuart Kaiser is having a very hard
morning listening to this, throwing
things at his uh at his screen, but you
know, is that basically
>> I I think an economy that's slower is
fine. An economy that's falling off a
cliff is bad. I think what we're seeing
though in reality is an economy that is
poised to reacelerate a little bit. And
we've seen that in some of the earnings
reports and some of the commentaries
particularly from the airlines. Have we
grappled with the thought that the
economy is not slowing down? And that I
think is something that I see
increasingly in notes that maybe this is
more inflationary over a prolonged
period than many people had imagined
because the consumer is feeling better
and more resilient and frankly companies
are able to pass along some of the price
increases. Everyone's maneuvering just
fine. So why should the Fed be cutting
rates and potentially are we discounting
the idea of inflation? So I I think you
don't want to get caught in a false
dichotomy of either it's bad or it's
inflation. There's a third option and
it's the one that that we kind of see
which is an economy that has kind of
bottomed in terms of the consumer being
under some pressure uncertainty reigning
and maybe starting to reacelerate. I
think we are starting to see signs of
that but that doesn't necessarily mean
that it's one that has a lot of
inflation pressure building because you
still don't you still have a little bit
of a looser labor market. Hiring's a
little bit slower. um goods prices are
not showing any kind of big inflationary
pressures at least right now and so we
think it's a little bit of a a kind of
reinflating of the economy but not
necessarily a reinflation of of
inflation pressures in the economy and
so you could be in a scenario where
earnings are growing and the Fed is able
to cut and then that becomes a really
good environment for stocks which is why
if as we look out you know 12 18 months
we can get this market that's at 6,500
today up to 7500 that doesn't mean we
don't have a breather here because we
have run so far so fast. But that's the
direction of travel that we see.
>> You mentioned Kaiser. Stu said if we
take a significant weakening in the data
and it would have to be a big one to
concern equity markets payroll sub 75k
unemployment rate above 4.3%. Anything
other than that we're okay. It would
have to be so catastrophic that even if
the Fed did what the what the president
would like and cut by 300 basis points,
it still wouldn't be enough to really
regenerate some sort of growth, which
seems not only unlikely, but essentially
has been written off by every investor
in this market currently.
>> Steve, it's good to see you as always.
Thanks for dropping by. Steve Chevron
there of Federated. If you are just
joining us, welcome to the program. Five
consecutive all-time highs on the S&P
500 could be in store for day six.
Equity futures right now positive by a
quarter of 1% with an update on stories
elsewhere with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahara Arnand. Hey Yahara.
>> Good morning, John. President Trump and
European Commission President Ursula
Laion announcing a trade deal ahead of
Friday's deadline. The deal will see 15%
tariffs on most EU imports into the US.
The EU also agreed to purchase $750
billion in American energy products and
invest 600 billion in the US. And
sticking on trade, US and Chinese
officials are meeting in Sweden to
extend their trade truce beyond its
August 12th deadline. It will be the
third meeting in less than 3 months
between Treasury Secretary Scott Bessant
and Chinese Vice Premier Hila Fun. A
breakthrough this week could set the
stage for a meeting between Trump and
Xiinping later this year. And Samsung
Electronics will produce AI
semiconductors for Tesla. sources
telling us here at Bloomberg the deal
worth $16.5 billion will run through the
end of 2033. Musk confirming it on X
saying the 16.5 billion number is just
the bare minimum and that actual output
is likely to be higher. The win for
Samsung comes as it moves to regain
ground in chip manufacturing. That's
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yhara in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, striking a deal with the EU.
>> We've reached a deal. I think you were
saying this is probably the biggest deal
ever reached in any capacity.
>> We have a deal and it's a big deal. It's
a huge deal. It's 15% tariffs across the
board. All inclus inclusive.
>> I think it's the biggest deal ever made.
Thank you very much. Congratulations.
>> Up next, Terry Haynes of Pangia Policy
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
[Music]
Looking ahead to a really busy week.
Federal Reserve decision on Wednesday.
Big data point on Friday. Payroll's just
around the corner. In our survey, just a
sneak peek for you. The median estimate
is 109. The high is 170. The low, Steven
Stanley of Santandere is looking for
zero. That's not a typo. He's looking
for zero this Friday.
>> Would that be bad enough to be
considered bad? And that I think is
really interesting. If you pair that
with where the unemployment rate is, if
you pair that with sort of what people
are expecting in terms of the supply of
labor versus demand, I wonder if that
would be enough to shock this market.
>> Might change the conversation going into
Jackson Hole. Equity futures right now
in the equity market stay side. We're
positive by a quarter of 1% on the S&P
500 on the NASDAQ 100 up by 0.4 under
surveillance this morning striking a
deal with the EU.
We are agreeing that the tariff straight
across
for automobiles and everything else will
be a straight across tariff of 15%. I
think you were saying this is probably
the biggest deal ever reached in any
capacity, trade or beyond trade.
>> It is.
>> It's a it's a giant deal with lots of
countries.
>> It's the latest this morning. The US and
European Union reaching a deal, averting
a trade war before President Donald
Trump's Friday deadline. The European
Commission President Ursa Vondan saying
it would bring stability and
predictability. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall joins us now from the nation's
capital. Tyler, this looks like a major
win for the president.
Yeah. Hey, John. Good morning. Well, the
White House is definitely touting it as
a major win as they add it to its list
of finished frameworks at least along
with Japan as we sort of barrel towards
August 1st and wait for some of these
other trading partners to emerge. Now, a
US official does tell us that that 15%
tariff rate will go into effect on
August 1st, this Friday. But we are
still waiting for the finalized text of
this deal. Really importantly though to
point out, President Trump said the 15%
of course extends to EU autos. something
that we know was a really critical
sticking point in these negotiations.
But our analysts at Bloomberg Economics
do say that there is still risk here
when it comes to some other sector
specific tariffs that includes metals.
Our understanding is is that they'll
likely be tariffed under a lower levy
for a certain quota, but then could snap
back up to that 50% rate. And same thing
goes for pharmaceuticals. There's still
some big question marks there, including
if those pharmaceuticals will remain
tariffed at 15% even after we get a
section 232 investigation, which could
lift that levy even higher. Now, of
course, we know that the EU did give uh
some major uh points to the United
States here, including uh purchasing 750
billion in American energy, agreeing to
a $600 billion investment on top of
existing expenditures. And then John,
I'll also point out that the EU says
that they will purchase vast amounts in
President Trump's words when it comes to
US military equipment. That of course
has long been a sticking point for this
White House trying to get European
allies to boost their defense
expenditures. So that's uh something
that we were tracking and ultimately
ended up in what seems to be this
finalized framework.
>> Tyler, can we finish on China? And I'm
not talking about the talks in
Stockholm. Most people assume we'll get
a 90-day extension. They'll continue.
I'm talking about the potential talks
between the Europeans and the Chinese.
Do the Europeans now have to turn
towards China and address the other
capacity issues alongside the Americans?
>> Well, that's something that we're
definitely tracking here because we do
know that there's going to be a flow of
these cheaper Chinese goods and where
which sorts of markets will these end up
going in. But the Europeans have said
that they want to try to bid against
that and not ultimately have to absorb
that excess consumption. And so it's
something that we're going to be
watching here as this does move forward
and as the US is pushing for China to
make its own structural reform.
Something that our analysts say at the
moment isn't something that they really
do expect to come out of these trade
talks as they do kick off in Stockholm.
There are a few different other areas of
concessions though importantly that the
US is looking for that I would say that
we should focus our attention on
including when it comes to fentanyl.
Perhaps this could be one of those main
uh areas that we could see some sort of
compromise on since we know that about
20% of the current tariff against China
is linked to fentanyl concerns. And we
have seen China make perhaps some sort
of concessions in recent weeks towards
getting that uh number potentially lower
in lower including curbing some of the
main chemicals that go into fentanyl.
John
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest. Tyler,
thank you. To extend the conversation,
Terry Haynes of Pangia Policy. Terry,
welcome to the program. There is always
a temptation to move on to the next
thing. I just want to talk about the
last thing for a little bit longer. Just
frame what we witnessed over the weekend
to see European Commission president
accept 15% and essentially say thank
you. We will rebalance and almost
apologizing about the situation.
>> Well, it's a uh it's a it's a triumph of
a lot of things. Uh certainly the
president ought to take a victory lap.
Uh I think it's I think it ends up being
good for the European Union. Uh it's a
blow against the conventional wisdom
which uh of course in the last quarter
saw a lot of this as disastrous. Uh the
markets see the fact of the deal and the
ratification of trade and the expansion
of trade as the most important thing. uh
and I and number one number two I think
there's a situation here where as you've
alluded to in your questioning with
Tyler that uh that the geopolitical
element of this also remains front and
center whether we're talking about the
continued interdependence of the US and
European Union economies or whether
we're talking about investments in the
United States and purchases of military
equipment. uh you're seeing a uh you're
seeing a tightening of the alliance and
I think frankly uh an attempt by both
parties to uh to push back a bit against
uh against China.
>> Terry, just to build on that theme,
we're hearing from the EU trade
commissioner Maro Sethkovich this
morning in Brussels and he commented on
how how overcapacity is destroying the
EU steel industry. over capacity is sort
of code from steel from China. And I
wonder how much that is ongoing
discussions that are happening now that
have pushed Europeans to make this deal
with the United States, even if it's
being perceived by the market as being
better for the US.
Well, they'll they'll certainly try to
make a deal on this, but at the same
time, you know, Europe sees and uh then
the United States sees as well, I think,
the uh uh the the China using uh
economic sectors and industries as uh as
geopolitical weapons. And there's
nothing there's nothing more uh stark uh
than the China trying to flood the
European market with with EVs, for
example, on this. And you know, we we
even see uh as Bloomberg reported
recently, uh Starbucks under assault now
by by a Chinese coffee company starting
in New York vastly undercutting prices.
Uh so you'll see this uh you know
throughout and it is a light motif of of
these trade deals and uh and the fulcrum
of kind of pushing back against China
limiting China's ability to try to use
industries and sectors to frankly hollow
out and destroy industrial capacity in
the west.
>> What have we learned from both the
Japanese deal and the EU deal in terms
of the structure of the sustainable
trade conversation going forward? Is it
that 15% is the new floor and that you
have to have some sort of investment
fund alongside that? The details of
which haven't really been disclosed on
either side.
>> I tend to go outside in on this instead
of inside out. What I mean by this is I
think uh I think markets and I I've said
this many times on this program. I think
markets are are uh are focusing entirely
too much on tariffs and entirely not too
much on on the broader benefits of the
rest of Trump uh trade and trade policy
uh and tax policy whether it be the uh
the the tax bill and the variety of
things that are that are coming from
that or these trade deals and how
they're trying to reorient uh in ways
that that frankly continue and expand
investment in the United States as as a
complement to onshoring and reshoring in
critical critical industries as
Secretary Besson puts it.
>> In fairness though, stocks are at record
highs. They've been reaching record high
after record high. In what capacity are
you saying that markets are not aware of
some of the positive benefits from this?
Uh well, I'm saying that they haven't
been first of all and second of all, I'm
saying that there's there continues to
be a a focus on tariffs as a negative uh
without the counterveailing positives
and uh attached. Uh certainly markets
had gotten over a lot of the tariff
shock in the last quarter and you know
got past the idea from the conventional
wisdom that this was going to cause a uh
a hole in the economy. Uh now what we
your situation is I think Steve put it
very well in the last segment is you've
got a variety of uh hoops that have been
jumped through all of which are market
positives and now we're turning to uh
for example the Fed this week as well as
earnings to see if the proofs in the
pudding on that side.
>> The narrative has changed quickly. Let's
put it that way. Terry, appreciate your
time. Terry Haynes there of Pangia
Policy. Lisa said it last week 15's the
new 10. Victoria Green said the market's
behaving as if 15's the new zero. This
market's moved on quickly. People seem
to forget that we still see a tariff
rate that's the highest since the 1930s.
People are cheering it. Georgia Maloney
called it sustainable and maybe that is
the bar that we're looking to hurdle.
>> The economic story is yet to be written,
but it's quite a win for the president
over the weekend. Up next, we'll catch
up with the former Trump trade official
Kate Kuwitz. Plus, Danny Burgerer with
your morning movers.
The equity market bulls are feeling good
this morning. John Stealthus over at
Oppenheimimer 7,100 up from 5950. A new
street high S&P 500 price target. Your
futures look like this. Equity futures
on the S&P up by 210 of 1% on the NASDAQ
up by 0.4 with 3 hours until the opening
bell. Let's get you some morning movers
and cross over to Danny Burger. Hey
Danny.
>> Hey John. And we also have some specific
industries rallying off the back of that
US EU deal. US energy out produce output
producers also among them specifically
those ones that look like they produce
LNG. $750 billion is what the US
announced that the EU would be buying in
US energy products. The EU also
confirming that saying that they look to
replace some of their Russian energy
with that of the US. So some of these
shares up as much as 6%. Venture Global
up 6.8%. Trump also saying that the EU
would be buying quote vast amounts of US
arms. So some of the defense companies
in the US also rallying. Loheed Martin
up 1.4%. I should also note that the
European defense companies are falling
off the back of that. Finally, some
individual company news. Tesla and
Samsung announcing a pact where Samsung
will build will produce Tesla's next
generation of AI chips. $60.5 billion is
the price tag on that deal. Elon Musk
saying that it's hard to overstate the
importance of this agreement and that it
is likely just the baseline number in
the agreement. It might go further than
that. Samsung though shares in Asia also
rallying. John
>> Danny, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Danny in the next hour. On our
radar this morning, our top story, the
EU striking a trade deal with the US
agreeing to a 15% levy on most exports
starting on August 1st. President Donald
Trump calling it the biggest of all the
deals.
>> Yeah. And we heard from Ursula Vander
Leven. It's a huge deal. Major deal. big
deal. Definitely the discussion that she
had uh with President Trump. Look, it
raises a question about 15% as a new
floor. What this does to European
companies? We heard from the auto
manufacturers saying, "Look, it's better
than 25%." But there still are a lot of
questions and the Germans main lobbyist
said it sends a fatal signal to the
closely intertwined economies on both
sides of the Atlantic. The story still
has to be written. I think it's
interesting the investment funds and I
want to see what exactly that means. And
then as you were saying earlier, there
are certain expediencies like the
security of a an entire continent. They
need to buy weapons from the United
States. They don't have any other
option. They need to buy LG from the
United States. This is cottifying it and
creating a win for uh President Trump.
>> As you've pointed out, a couple of
things. We still need to know how much
push back we'll get from member states
across Europe. That's still to play out.
In addition to that, I would say watch
the space on the sectoral tariffs. Are
we really all inclusive? Is it 15%
all-incclusive or is there going to be
another fight further down the road?
>> This isn't including steel metals in
general. It's also not including
pharmaceuticals. Right. So that's a big
question mark and what we heard from
Ursula Vander Lion is well we just don't
know. We'll have to see what we see.
There also are the sectoral tariffs and
some of the reviews as you were
mentioning. That's going to come to the
four. We don't understand the reference
to that. There's also a court case later
this week to understand the legality of
some of these trade wars by President
Trump using AIPA what they're currently
using. If that gets overruled in any
capacity, how does that upend a number
of these trade deals?
>> How binding are these purchase
agreements as well, these investment
agreements, not just with the EU, but
with Japan? But all that aside, the fact
of the matter is you've got the
Europeans to accept 15% and there is
nothing in terms of retaliation. That's
a win
>> and that's the reason why you're seeing
the dollar strengthen versus basically
everything and you're seeing the euro
weaken. At what point, to Terry Haynes's
point, has the world viewed the tariff
for the trade war by the United States
as a negative for the United States? And
how much is that shifting just slightly
as people start looking at the details
of some of these deals?
>> Let's go from Scotland over to
Stockholm. US and Chinese officials
meeting today in Sweden to extend their
trade truce beyond a mid- August
deadline. The Treasury Secretary Scott
Besson leading negotiations for the US
with most people expecting a 90-day
extension. Yeah, that's what Chinese
media are reporting uh over the weekend
that that is the expectation. It feels
to me like they make an agreement and
then they tighten the screws on exactly
the aspects of that agreement and then
they make an agreement to go back to the
original agreement in order to create a
sustainable flow of trade that can
maintain the industries whether it's
parts of planes for China or whether
it's rare earth metals for the United
States and put that on repeat. It feels
like we just do that again and again and
that's what we're doing this uh this
morning in Stockholm.
>> Mark is comfortable with that. Just kick
the can. Extended pretend. Kick the can.
>> It seems like this market just doesn't
want uh April 2nd once again. I mean,
essentially anything but April 2nd is
really great. I mean, we're talking
about a worst case scenario of average
tariffs of 18%. Now there's close to 16%
with this deal. And everyone's cheering
saying, well, it could have been worse.
It sort of raises the question, do you
buy the rumor and buy the news because
it could have been so much worse.
>> That's the latest on the trade front.
Wanted to squeeze in this story. Samsung
striking a $16.5 billion multi-year deal
to produce AI chips for Tesla. The CEO
Elon Musk confirming the deal on X
writing the following. The strategic
importance of this is hard to overstate.
>> So two aspects here. One, the desire to
diversify away from Taiwan semiconductor
manufacturing company TSMC because they
are in a particularly perilous place,
but also because they don't have the
capacity to manufacture anything extra.
Number one. two, the difficulty in doing
that because Samsung has lost share as
their foundry and how difficult it is to
break into that. What does this mean for
Intel? I know I feel bad for them, but
they're getting out of this business,
but it just shows how hard it is to
break in at this point. How much does
this give Samsung a bit of a leg higher?
>> Tesla up in a pre-market by 1.5%. Let's
stick with autos. Volkswagen's Audi
cutting its outlook, citing tariffs and
restructuring costs. The news coming
after the EU and US announced the trade
deal with 15% tariffs matching last
week's deal with Japan. Bloomber's Craig
Jud joins us now for more. Craig,
welcome to the program, sir. What
position does this put the industry in
this morning following the agreement
over the weekend?
>> Yeah, I I think in short, it's going
from a really really bad situation to
just a really bad situation. uh you know
a a 6x increase in the percentage uh you
know that that you're being charged and
from a a you know import uh duty
perspective uh is better than 11x right
and yet it's still going to to be really
impactful for the likes of Audi and the
Volkswagen group which uh you know the
the sort of parent of the company uh
also uh came out with with reduced
guidance last week and we're seeing this
affect not just the European
manufacturers but also
US companies like like GM uh where you
know I think it's underappreciated the
extent to which uh you know GM as we've
talked about on this program you know
import imports a heck of a lot of uh
pickups and SUVs uh from Canada and
Mexico and they also import some of
their cheaper models from South Korea.
So this is having you know farreaching
uh ramifications for this sector. We're
seeing some relief rallying going on,
but uh even that has been short-lived
where we saw, you know, a real rally in
in European stocks off the Japan deal
last week. Uh and you know, some some
giving back of that today for for some
uh European manufacturers during today's
session.
>> GM up this morning by 0.6%. Ford up by
about a quarter. Craig, thank you, sir.
Craig Judell out of London. The former
Trump White House trade official Kate
Kquit says the US automakers won't be
happy. Kate joins us now for more. Kate,
welcome to the program. Can you just
explain that why they'll be unhappy with
what's been agreed?
>> Well, I think they're trying to find
some positives in this. On the one hand,
of course, President Trump has pushed
very aggressively for trading partners
to open up their markets to US
automakers and US exports. But at the
same time, he's granting these lower
tariff rates even after he, you know,
gave the US automakers a gift with 25%
tariffs earlier in the year. Each trade
deal seemingly erodess that bit by bit.
So at this point, do you think that this
is going to not necessarily increase
their market share, increase their
capacity to produce in the US with
manufacturing coming back to the US and
it just means that it levels the playing
field with Europeans? It could, you
know, US automakers, I think, are
waiting, as are many, for discussions to
kick into gear with Mexico and Canada. I
think everyone is aware that the North
American value chain is very important
for the US automakers and and you know
we've had a bit of uh lag time in
discussions with our North American
partners. So every time a trading
partner like the UK secures 0% tariffs
for a range of its autos and Japan and
the European Union get lower than the
the 25% rate. They're they're a bit
anxious about what that means for the
market here in the US. I'm struck by
some of the commentary coming out of EU
Commissioner, Trade Commissioner Maros
Sukkovich this morning. He said a number
of times that this is the beginning of a
process with the United States with
talks. He's talking about how 0% EU US
tariff list remains open to additions as
though this is just the beginning of a
negotiation even though the market is
taking this as the end of the
negotiation. Can you sort of square that
difference?
Well, well, there's still a lot of
detail to hammer out here and this is of
course what happens when a leader level
discussion wraps something up. The the
trade negotiators themselves are going
to have to come hammer out the details
and I am struck of course by the
difference in the statements by the
European Commission around this notion
that there will be additional tariff
liberalization. I suspect that may be
hard to come by. I think the United
States is is probably done with Europe
for the moment and we'll be moving on to
other trade negotiations, but it would
be a positive development if we could
find some more zero for zero tariff
talk. I mean, not only with Europe, but
other trading partners. I just don't see
that in the near term.
>> So, Kate, we've made progress with the
Europeans, with Japan, and maybe we kick
the can with the Chinese. There's two
big nations left, Mexico and Canada. The
trade relationship with them is yet to
be defined. How do you think that's
going to land? Where do you think we
will land in the next 12 months?
>> Well, I'm hopeful and I I remain bullish
about North America. I mean, I think for
President Trump, despite, you know, his,
I think, core belief that we can make
everything in America, he does recognize
that North America is critical for the
long-term success of the American
manufacturing sector. Particularly when
we think about China, uh we have built
this very productive value chain and it
would be really dramatic to to pull the
rug out from under companies that have
made these investments. His
administration has acknowledged this
through a series of exceptions. Um but I
do think Mexico and Canada were quite
shocked when they received those tariff
letters and absent some change, we will
see an increase of tariffs on Mexico and
Canada this Friday. uh you know those
leaders have been very uh willing to
negotiate with the president
particularly on these fentinel tariffs
and I'm very hopeful that now that we've
got the European Union completed they'll
have their chance to get to the
president
>> as we know the white house has been very
upset about so-called trans shipping
that's been a story through Mexico for a
long long time now they've been pushing
other nations to do something about that
Kate both trans shipping and Chinese
overcapacity which is the source of the
issue Kate are you hopeful that the US
has now got a coalition of willing, if
you will, to do something about Chinese
overcapacity.
>> I do I mean I think this has been
probably the most significant component
of these agreements is this recognition
that goods that have a significant
amount of content from China will be
treated differently. I think that this
year when we return to the negotiating
table with our USMCA partners, Mexico
and Canada, we will see a significant
focus on on the so-called rules of
origin to ensure that goods of North
America are really goods of North
America and not a secret way for Chinese
imports to make their way into the
United States. The good news is that I
think Mexico is willing to play ball
here and really willing to work with the
United States to ensure that Chinese
goods are not being trans shipped, but
this very much will be the central part
of those negotiations.
>> Kate, appreciate you jumping on this
morning. Thank you. Kucitz there, the
former Trump trade official on the
latest. This is the latest. Lisa
mentioned the trade chief over in
Europe. The US deal is not only about
trade, it's also about security and
Ukraine. And this goes directly to the
$750 billion of purchases in energy as
well as the military purchases that they
have on deck as they try to fortify the
region from the threat of Russia. What
else are they putting in there? I mean,
again, it just puts in the question of
other details. You think about, for
example, China, how much is their
agreement really going to be tied to not
buying oil from Russia? Is that
something that's similar with some of
the discussions with Europe and as well
as the US?
>> A lot to work out this morning, that's
for sure. Futures just about positive
still up by 0.2% with an update on
stories elsewhere. With your Bloomberg
brief back with us, here's Yahihara.
Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. The leaders of Thailand and
Cambodia began talks for emergency peace
talks after President Trump threatened
to withhold trade deals unless fighting
stopped. The border conflict that broke
out last week has become Southeast
Asia's deadliest in a decade. More than
30 people have been killed and 150,000
displaced.
Meanwhile, Mark Zuckerberg is escalating
his AI hiring spree. The Meta CEO
announced on threads he hired Chat GPT
co-creator Shenja Chow as chief
scientist of his super intelligence
labs. Chiao will set the research agenda
and scientific scientific direction for
the lab, which aims to build new AI
models that can perform tasks as well as
or better than humans. And Tade Pogachar
is once again a champion in an exciting
race. The 26-year-old Slovenian blasted
his way to his fourth Tor France title,
beating rival and twotime tour winner
Yonis Vingugore amid challenging weather
and hazardous road conditions. Pogachar
previously won the Tour de France in
2020, 2021, and 2024. That's tripber
brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. I cannot think of a
harder sporting event. Can you?
>> I was just thinking.
>> It's ridiculous. I was just looking up
what is the average resting heart rate
of somebody who competes in tour to
force. It's in the low to mid-40s and
even as low as the high 20s.
>> That's just nonsense. They're barely
alive.
>> Well, that's exactly it because they
have to be barely alive so that they can
be, you know, ba basically functional as
they do something that is, you know, a
superhuman feat.
>> Ridiculous. Futures positive. We're up
by 0.2%. Big week still to come in this
market. Up next, piling the pressure on
the Fed. It looks like it's about 3.1
billion. Went up a little bit or a lot.
Uh so the 2.7 is now 3.1.
>> I'm not aware of that.
>> Yeah, it just came out.
>> Yeah, I haven't heard that from anybody
at the Fed.
>> Up next on the program, Scott Anderson
of Beimo, live from New York City. This
is Bloomberg.
[Music]
I mentioned John Stalus over at
Oppenheimer are looking for 7100 on the
S&P. Morgan Stanley and Mike Wilson
reiterating they're looking for the
bullcase potentially 7,200 over the next
12 months. The bull's getting more fuel
over the weekend. Apparently,
>> they got stability when it came to some
of the rates, and frankly, it's not the
worst case scenario. Just to put into
perspective, Sto's uh year-end target
would be the third consecutive year of
more than 20% gains on the S&P 500. So,
it kind of flies in the face of all of
the uh naysayers who try to be bears at
the beginning of every year.
>> Imagine saying that on the afternoon of
April 2nd and the carnage that followed
in the week afterwards.
>> And imagine if you understood where we
were going to end up with the tariff
rate. Would you still have been able to
understand what kind of rebound we would
have seen or have the goalpost been
moved so much that this market responds
to tariff news very differently than it
would have?
>> A lot changed in this market. Higher by
0.2% on the S&P 500. Big week ahead and
the Savas this morning ping the pressure
on the Fed.
>> We're just taking a look at what's
happening. You know, it's a it's a tough
construction job. It looks like it's
about 3.1 billion. Went up a little bit
or a lot. Uh, so the 2.7 is now 3.1.
>> I'm not aware of the
>> Yeah, it just came out.
>> Yeah, I haven't heard that from anybody
at the Fed. You're including the Martin
renovation. You just added in a third
building is what that is. That's a third
building.
>> It's a building that's being built.
>> No, it's been it was built 5 years ago.
>> It's part of the overall.
>> Well, I'd love him to lower interest
rates, but other than that, what can I
tell you?
>> Here's the latest this morning. The
Federal Reserve and Chair Pal under an
uncomfortable spotlight this week. Scott
Anderson of Beimo writes, "Stagflation
light still appears to be the US
economy's most likely path and should
allow the Fed to look through some of
the inflationary effects of tariffs in
the months ahead." Scott joins us now
for more. Scott, welcome to the program,
sir. How are they going to navigate
these issues at Wednesday's meeting?
>> Well, I expect Fed's uh playbook isn't
going to change a whole lot from what
he's talked about in in recent weeks.
He's really going to highlight the risks
to the dual mandate um full employment
and stable prices. Um while the markets
are celebrating uh the lower uncertainty
on the reciprocal tariffs, we're still
looking at substantial tariffs. Uh we
think the average effective tariff rate
in US will land somewhere in the 15 to
20% range, probably closer to the 15%
level. But that's uh that's uh
significant. That's, you know, more than
six times where it was uh last year and
we're going to still see some uh price
effects from that before the end of the
year.
>> Scott, what do you make of the
difference that we get in tone from the
markets reaching new highs, optimistic,
raising price targets, most bullish
estimate, and economists who are coming
out and saying just wait, you haven't
seen the ramifications. They're going to
be bad and just wait until the second
half of this year.
>> Well, you know, I do think the tariff
truce had a lot to do with it. you know,
after the April 2nd liberation day where
there was panic in the markets and and
we've se seen, you know, the
expectations of the markets pretty much
playing out. We've had a slow roll on
the inflation effects from the tariffs.
The second quarter looks like inflation.
We saw a nice move down in prices,
largely due to energy though, not really
any relief on the goods price inflation.
We really haven't seen a lot of the
price effects hit yet. And most
economists didn't expect to see them for
another two or three months. And that's
part of the reason why the Fed remains
on hold. And and while even September
looks like they may be able to look
through some of the tariff effects
there, we're probably still not going to
peak on inflation until the end of the
year. Um and we really won't see any
relief on prices probably until next
year sometime. At the same time, we are
expecting two descents uh on Wednesday
and potentially it's going to be the
first descents that we see from Fed
members going back to the 1990s at a
time when there are real questions about
the politicization of the Federal
Reserve swirling. And frankly, there's a
real economic argument to be made that
yes, we are going to see some
inflationary impacts, but they're going
to be a one-time price adjustment, not
the beginning of an inflation spiral.
And we're seeing other Fed members apart
from those two really coales around that
idea. How viable do you think that is? I
mean, do you think that that you as an
economist could sign up to a rate cut as
soon as September, another one by the
end of December, and a couple more next
year?
>> That's exactly what we're forecasting.
We do think we'll see a cut in September
and in December. And there's a
possibility of even more cuts next year.
We've got four quarter point cuts in our
forecast, which is a little bit more
aggressive than what the markets are
currently pricing in and a lot different
from what the FOMC said, the median
forecast back at the June meeting. Uh we
really had the FOMC members in two camps
uh coming out of the June meeting. We
had seven FOMC participants that didn't
want any cuts at all this year, but
there were 10 that were looking for two
or more cuts uh by the end of the year.
Um but only one cut expected for 2026.
So, uh, the markets are are factoring in
maybe a new Fed chair, a more aggressive
rate cut path next year, and I think
that's probably the right call.
>> Scott, when they meet on Wednesday, they
won't have the payrolls report that
comes out on Friday. The range is pretty
wide this time around. The highend 170,
the low end zero. You're close to the
median of 109. Scott, you're 114. Is
that the new normal for this jobs
market?
>> Well, we do think the labor market's
slowing down. you know, hiring has
certainly uh cooled off. We're not
seeing the layoffs, though. And in fact,
initial jobless claims. The four-week
moving average is moving down for the
last five weeks. So, a big range of uh
forecast here coming into the meeting uh
coming into the uh payroll report on
Friday. Um partly because of that. We're
getting mixed signals, mixed messages
from some of the u more timely
indicators here. But we do think the
path of least resistance for the labor
market is more cooling and maybe even a
tick up in the unemployment rate to 4.2
from 4.1 last month. Um nothing to get
too alarmed about here. No sign of a
recession on the horizon, just uh more
uh balancing rebalancing of the labor
market that the Fed's been looking for.
>> That introduces some daylight between
you and Governor Waller. Governor Waller
looks at the same data and he says this
is a labor market on the edge. Scott, if
you're in conversation with him around
the table on Wednesday, how would you
convince him otherwise?
>> Well, I I I'd say that we've been
fooled, right? I mean, I think a lot of
people have called recessions over the
last year, year and a half. Um, and they
really haven't materialized. I mean,
we've all been surprised by the strength
and resilience of this expansion and the
labor market overall. And I think that's
the right side of the bet here. There's
obviously risks of both sides of the
dual mandate, but um the labor market
continues to surprise on the positive
side. Um and so that's um you know
that's part of the reason why I think
the Fed and J Paul thinks they can be
patient here.
>> Scott Anderson of Beimo. Scott,
appreciate the update on the Federal
Reserve and the economic data still to
come over the next week or so. This is
the first time in a long time we're
going to have two governors potentially
descent and two governors entered a
meeting making a case for an interest
rate cut that chairman Powell is not
quite prepared to deliver.
>> What I'm curious about is how many other
members, not just Mickey Bowman and
Chris Waller, sign up to the same idea
because we're hearing something similar
from the likes of Mary Dailyaly that
she's coalesing around this idea that
it's not necessarily a long-term
inflationary impact but rather a
one-time price shock. And if you start
talking about that and then you look at
edges of coolness on the labor market,
it starts to look like a different
picture.
>> Then it comes down to emphasis in the
news conference. Will the chairman
choose to emphasize the firmer goods
prices or will he choose to emphasize
the softer services prices? Then you can
start to get a read on how he feels
about the incoming tariff effects over
the next few months.
>> Yeah, I think that right now people are
going to have one question. How do you
message any kind of hold at a time when
you're on the chopping block and it's
unclear whether or not you're going to
get bullied by the president once again
about not cutting rates? So, it really
is going to be so heavily political that
I don't know how much nuance there's
going to be room for in terms of are you
emphasizing this particular type of
inflation. I'm just saying that's
probably I mean that's going to be the
focus, right?
>> After September, we'll probably know who
the next Fed chair is.
>> Exactly. And so,
>> and we'll stop listening to Chairman Pal
2026.
>> Maybe there'll be another Fed chair on
the Fed right now.
>> Exactly. Up next on the program, Jay
Pilowski of TPW, Henrietta of Vader
Partners, the English Premier League
CEO, Richard Masters, and Ed Ahuseni of
Colombia Thread Needle.
The reality is that the economy is
decelerating. I have real trouble both
with weakness in the labor market and
with a more hawkish Fed, that that
really changes the picture. There's
these underlying cracks in the labor
market.
>> The labor market has held up uh
reasonably well and and of course on the
other side of that you have inflation.
>> I think the Fed is set up quite well to
start some semblance of cuts.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> What a week coming up live from New York
City this morning. Good morning. Good
morning. The second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now and your
scores look like this. Equity futures on
the S&P just about positive. positive by
0.1% this morning. Up a third on the
NASDAQ, the NASDAQ in focus this week.
What a lineup of earnings. We'll have
numbers from Meta, Microsoft, Apple,
Amazon. It's my favorite week of the
quarter. You don't just get that, you
get this. You get payrolls Friday and a
Federal Reserve decision coming up on
Wednesday.
>> Yeah. So, take your pick. This is the
moment of truth. I keep going back to
what Julian Emanuel Vamper ISI said
about this week because we really
understand both the earnings picture
with the busiest earnings week for the
S&P 500 of Q2. We also get the Fed, how
they manage some of the political
pressure and exactly what they're
looking at. I wonder how valuable it'll
be from an economic perspective versus a
political perspective. And then the jobs
number and you raised a really good
question. How high is the bar for this
market to care on a downside surprise?
And what kind of upside surprise would
matter from an inflationary perspective?
How forgiving is this market going to be
on the earnings, on the data? We know
what the tariffs are. How well
understood are the consequences through
the rest of this year? As we've said
repeatedly through this morning, that
economic story is yet to be written, and
we're going to see the consequences
potentially in the next few months.
>> Both analysts and economists say we
won't necessarily see the ramifications,
the full ramifications from tariffs
until Q3 or Q4. If that's the case, how
much visibility are we getting from
companies, not just about the remainder
of this year, but 2026, especially at a
time where Lori Cavina has been really
good on saying we're all looking out to
2026 and ignoring the next two quarters.
So, you start putting that together. Do
we get some visibility into the
following year? And also, do we get a
sense of how much companies have
visibility for the remainder of this
year at a time where I got to say I'm
I'm punching into chat GPT. What is the
tariff rate for any given place? And it
comes up with lots of different numbers,
but it doesn't really have a clear sense
either.
>> Before we get too confused, let's just
take a beat on what took place over the
weekend. It looked like the European
Commission president was in a hostage
situation, accepting a 15% tariff, no
retaliation, everything on the
president's terms. Everything. No
retaliation, 15% tariff. A major win for
the White House.
>> Yeah. A huge investment in energy, a
huge investment in US companies, a huge
investment in military goods, and this
feeling that they are aware that there
are sectoral tariffs coming for metals
as well as pharmaceuticals, and they're
just going to have to eat that. It
raises a question of whether this is
essentially a win for President Trump
that he set the bar so high when it came
to the tariffs, the potential
ramifications that they had to accept
this and then talk about it as though
this was a win for them and try to say,
"Look, this is the beginning of a
negotiation as they're trying to say
with the uh EU trade commissioner this
morning." You just wonder about the
specific companies and what they say
because we're hearing a little bit of a
different tone from them.
>> And we've achieved all of that with
equities at all-time highs. Amazing.
Futures positive by 0.2% 2% this
morning. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Jay Pelosi of TPW advisory
with stocks on a 5-day winning streak,
Henry Trees of Vader Partners on the US
EU trade deal, and Ed Huseni of Colombia
Thread Needle and why the Fed might
delay cutting rates. We begin this hour
with our top story, the US and EU
striking a deal.
>> We've reached a deal.
It's a uh good deal for everybody, I
believe.
And uh it's I think you were saying this
is probably the biggest deal ever
reached in any capacity, trade or beyond
trade.
>> It is
>> it's a it's a giant deal with lots of
countries.
>> Our team coverage starts right now with
Lizzie Burton in Scotland. Ole Krook in
Stockholm. Lizzy, from our vantage
point, it looks like the president got
everything he wanted and some.
>> Are you surprised, John? The point of
this was to red address the imbalance in
trade between the US and the EU and of
course to get any deal over the line to
get that certainty of underline the
European Commission president was going
to have to give a sweetener and in this
case it came in the form of that $750
billion pledge to spend more on American
energy and then some. And so for many in
Europe this is at least certainty. For
others it is just not what they wanted
at all. Next up is going to be UK Prime
Minister Karma. We're expecting him to
arrive in the next hour here at Turnbury
to be greeted. Of course, he already got
his deal back in May, but there are
plenty of details to be ironed out,
including on steel, and our expectations
have already been lowered there from the
UK business and trade secretary,
Jonathan Reynolds, saying there isn't
likely to be a breakthrough. But maybe
they also talk about Gaza. You've got
lots of pressure, international and
domestic, on Star to press Trump to
revive those peace talks. Does that
pressure become insurmountable today?
>> We've got a range of issues to work
through. Ollie, I just want to start
with the first point. The ability of
European member states to accept what
was agreed to over the weekend. Are we
going to see any push back from Spain?
Any push back from anyone?
>> Jonathan, you will hear some push back.
you will hear some verbal criticism over
um the deal that was struck yesterday.
But the reality of the situation I think
for most European leaders is that this
is the only deal that was going to be on
the table and this is the only deal that
they were going to be able to accept. I
mean and when you think about 30%
tariffs which was the threat for the end
of this week this looks like kind of a
good deal. On the other hand, as you've
pointed out, if the base case was the
initial negotiating position was 0 for
zero, you ended up with something close
to 0 for 15. And that is not going to
make a number of people happy
particularly domestically on so many of
the the countries whether it's Germany
or France where you have a large sort of
uh right-wing population and political
establishment that is pushing back
already against what we've heard. We've
even heard from the political
establishment in France the prime
minister who says that basically the
block has resigned itself um to
capitulation um and to submitting to the
United States. We heard from Alice Vital
from the far right within Germany saying
that this is not an agreement but a slap
in the face for European consumers and
producers. and then Marine Le Pen
something very similar could saying that
this is a political economic and moral
fiasco for the Europeans. So those are
some of the views that we're getting
after we've got this deal. That being
said, there is a realization within
Europe that potentially this was not
really going to be there was not going
to be a much better deal associated with
this. There is some sort of silver
lining. We were expecting slightly
higher rates on autos. They came down to
15. So the Germans can call that a win.
But again, at the end of the day, this
is a really mixed bag for the Europeans.
But again, like with so many things in
the Trump administration, this continues
to reveal some of Europe's impetence on
the issues of the economy, but also
geopolitics globally.
>> It's really notable that Ali, Lizzy,
you're both in Stockholm and uh you're
in Scotland. This idea that the two
polls of these discussions have to do
with Europe and with China. Lizzie, I
would love your take on how much what we
have seen from this deal is the
Europeans understanding what a threat
China is and over capacity and imports
to the region and how much that was
really a big part of all of the
discussions that took place this
weekend.
[Applause]
>> Well, of course, the European Union
faces that threat of China dumping goods
on the continent. And we've got that
question discussed at the ECB, of
course, when it comes to the inflation
picture, the disinflation picture for
the Euro area economy. Interesting to
hear from ECB policy makers saying that
this US EU deal means that actually
there should be a hold in the September
meeting. But look, when it comes to this
deal, as Ollie said, they many of them
just wanted certainty and it seemed to
be the best that VDL could get.
Meanwhile, Ali, you are in Stockholm and
there is this expectation that we're
going to see a 90-day extension of the
US China trade truce. Do we have an
understanding of what is going to be
discussed then? Is it going to be when
Xiinping and Donald Trump are going to
meet? Is it going to be in South Korea?
Are we going to hear about the dynamics
of what China's relationship is with
Russia at the same time that that issue
with Russia and Ukraine is very much a
discussion with Europe and the US?
Yeah, in some way this is going to lay
the groundwork for something like what
we got with the EU with China, but that
is going to take a much longer time. As
we know from the Trump administration
and from Trump's election campaign,
fixing the trade relationship with China
is central to his uh geopolitical um
ambitions. It is one of the promises
he's made to the voters. So, they're
going to take their time. It's going to
be much more considered and they're
going to take their time with striking
that kind of agreement. What we need to
remind ourselves because it's very hard
to keep track of all the numbers flying
around on tariffs. The US China tariffs
currently are at 30%. But that is a
pause. That is a truce in the
conversations that are going on between
China and the United States. That would
kick back up to 125% by August the 12th
if you do not get an extension of the
truth. And that is what the the
expectation is when we have Scott Besson
arriving here in the next couple of
hours uh meeting with the vice premere
of China to discuss getting a truce in
place potentially another 90 days to
continue their negotiations. But they're
going to take their time. They're going
to talk about fossil fuels. They're uh
the Chinese position towards Russia,
towards Iran. There's going to be
discussions potentially about Tik Tok.
Remember, Trump says there's a buyer in
the United States. It still needs ch
signoff uh from the Chinese. But as ever
with the Trump administration, the trade
discussion is a way into a conversation
about a mosaic of other issues. And
those are the conversations that will be
happening right behind me here at the
Swedish Prime Minister's Office between
the Chinese and the United States to
pave the groundwork ultimately. It's
hard to imagine signing a deal between
China and the United States where it's
not Xiinping and Donald Trump in the
room together.
>> Ollie Krook, appreciate it. Ollie Crook
in Stockholm, Sweden. Lizzy Burden in
Tbury, Scotland. We'll be looking to
Scotland in about 20 minutes time when
the president of the United States will
be greeting the UK prime minister Zakir
Stalmer in Turbury, Scotland in about 20
minutes from now. We'll bring you some
of those live pictures when they come
in. Quite an achievement for the
president of the United States, a 15%
tariff. And Ollie mentioned Scott
Besson, the Treasury Secretary.
Rebalancing that relationship between
the US and the EU was point one, but a
bigger effort was to rebalance the
issues in China. And maybe they've
actually got a partner that will help
them do the same thing.
>> What's fascinating is the juxtaposition
of what's going on in Scotland and
Stockholm. the idea of getting some sort
of agreement with Europe, reducing the
temperature and understanding that
they've got a common threat when it
comes from overcapacity in China just
heading into the renegotiation of that
agreement with China. I just wonder how
far you can get. What is the sort of
threshold to get a deal over the finish
line to just even extend that pause for
going up to 125,000% or whatever it is
uh or it was on August second. should
also say on this occasion a benefit of
not being in the EU. The UK probably
feeling pretty good about that deal a
few months back
>> especially considering a pretty special
relationship that they have. Of course,
there is a surplus. It does raise a
question though about what type of
benefit a number of nations are going to
get from the European Union and watch
this space over the next couple of weeks
who does start to descent. You pointed
out Spain, they've had a very different
take than other nations when it comes to
China, when it comes to the European
Union, when it comes to a whole host of
different policies.
>> How much push back are we going to see
in the weeks to come? Yeah, exactly.
>> We'll see. So far so good for the equity
market. Alltime highs coming into
Monday. Futures up this morning by 0.2%.
The gates fading just a touch. Let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahihara.
Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. As Olli was discussing, US and
Chinese officials are meeting in Sweden
today to extend their trade truce beyond
its August 12th deadline. It will be the
third meeting in less than three months
between Treasury Secretary Scott Bessant
and Chinese Vice Premier Hila Fun. A
breakthrough during these talks could
set the stage for a meeting between
Trump and Xiinping later this year.
Meanwhile, Boeing is preparing for
factory workers to strike at its St.
Louis defense hub after they rejected a
contract offer. The International
Association of Machinists and aerospace
workers said its members overwhelmingly
voted against the new terms that would
have boosted their wages by 20%. Boeing
has activated its strike conting
contingency plan.
And Heineken shares are dropping 4.6% in
European trading. The Dutch brewer saw a
decline in beer volumes due to disputes
with regional buying groups over price
increases that lasted longer than
expected. Heken noted there would be
some impact from tariffs on US profits
in the second half of the year. That's
your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara. Thank you. More from Yhara in
about 30 minutes time. Up next, trade
war averted with the EU.
>> We've reached a deal. I think you were
saying this is probably the biggest deal
ever reached in any capacity.
>> We have a deal and it's a big deal. It's
a huge deal. It's 15% tariffs across the
board. All inclus inclusive.
>> I think it's the biggest deal ever made.
Thank you very much. Congratulations.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Henrietta Trees of Vader Partners
and get you the view from the nation's
capital with Tyler Kendall from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
massive week for earnings coming up.
Meta, Microsoft, Amazon, Apple, four
names making up 1/5if of the index.
1/5if of the S&P 500 across four tech
heavyweights. Those heavyweights
reporting across Wednesday and Thursday.
>> That's 11 trillion of market
capitalization. And a couple of key
questions that could be answered or at
least begun to answered uh when it comes
to what kind of capital investment these
companies are making. To me, that's the
biggest question because if you look at
overall S&P valuations, they are baking
in structurally higher margins that are
going to come from artificial
intelligence, technological gains, and
some of the investments that you're
seeing in the likes of Alphabet that
increase their expenditures for the
period. To me, these are the types of
things to watch that have been driving
the overall equity indexes in a way that
feels a little divorced from the will
they or won't they put tariffs on.
>> Max seven names coming into this week at
record highs, very close to those levels
this morning. the equity futures
positive by t10 of 1% under surveys this
morning trade war averted with the EU
we are agreeing that the tariff straight
across
for automobiles and everything else will
be a straight across tariff of 15%. I
think you were saying this is probably
the biggest deal ever reached in any
capacity trade or beyond trade. It is.
>> It's a It's a giant deal with lots of
countries.
>> Here's the latest this morning. The US
and European Union making a deal before
President Trump's Friday deadline. The
European Commission President Ursula von
Delean saying it would bring stability
and predictability. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall joins us now for more. Tyler, we
imagine the White House is feeling
pretty good this morning.
>> Yeah. Hey, John. They definitely are.
And this is considered to be a pretty
consequential deal considering that the
European Union does make up about 20% of
total US imports each year. And the
White House was able to do this without
any of the planned retaliation that we
kept hearing about from the European
Union that was expected to target some
politically sensitive goods in the US.
Now, importantly, when we look at the
details that we have gotten, the
president says that that 15% that will
be extended to EU autos. I bring that up
because we know that that was a really
critical sticking point on the European
side of the negotiations. But still,
some of the biggest questions remaining
about this deal do really have to deal
with those sector specific tariffs like
pharmaceuticals, whether or not that
will see a higher rate when the section
232 investigation is completed. And then
also details surrounding metals. Our
understanding is steel and aluminum will
likely face a lower tariff rate under a
certain quota, but we still haven't
gotten those details yet. And we know
that that is really top of mind and has
been a big part of these negotiations.
We even had the EU's Vander Lion in a
statement afterwards say that the
trading partners will together quote
face the common external challenge of
global overcapacity when it comes to
steel and aluminum amid of course
threats about China flooding the market
with cheap metal exports. So that's
something that of course we're still
going to be watching for because we do
need additional details about this deal.
I will say that when we look at the sort
of broader picture here, it does seem
like we're trending towards a 15% tariff
uh across the board. I will uh add John,
I did mention uh to Peter Navaro, I
asked him last week on Bloomberg
television whether or not 15% is the new
baseline. He called that aspirational
and it all depends on what our trading
partners are able to put on the table.
>> Tyler, I appreciate it. Tyler Kendall
down in Washington DC. Thank you.
Joining us now to extend the
conversation, Henrietta Trace of Vader
Partners. Henreda, welcome to the
program. Let's just start with that 15%
and the so-called deal over the weekend
in principle at least. How inclusive is
that deal of the sectoral tariffs that
are still to come?
>> The sectoral tariffs are probably
paramount for investors right now.
Everybody has come to understand that,
you know, this is sort of a birth
announcement and congratulations. It's a
border adjustment tax. So, we have a 15%
across the board consumption tax. It's
about 2500 bucks per family in the
United States that they'll be paying.
But the sector analysts on pharma are
most keyed into the details here which
President Trump did not provide and
which are not yet available. In the next
two to three weeks, we're going to have
to hammer out the details of that
because the investigation will be
released. We'll get at minimum sort of
an executive summary of what Commerce
has found there and we need to know what
it's doing on generic drugs, what it's
doing on intellectual property out of
Ireland. Um we have outstanding issues
of this with Switzerland, with India,
with China. It's a it's a gigantic
component of this and there are no
details yet.
>> So given that everyone's now an expert
in 232 section 232 tariffs as well as
AIPA and understanding the difference
between the two, I just wonder what kind
of curveball it is on Thursday if we get
some sort of federal appeals court
ruling that knocks down some of the use
of the AIPA tariffs and throws a real
kink into some of these agreements that
have been hammered out. Yeah, you really
have to wonder, are these tariffs that
the president is getting the EU to agree
with going to be anything with staying
power? The deal with these lawsuits is
that it doesn't undermine the um trade
agreement that the president has put in
place with the EU per se, but it does
require the president to start paying
back any of the importers who pay the
tariff when they import a product from
the EU. So, as fast as the money is
coming in, they're going to have to turn
around and write a check back to the C
company that has paid the tariff and pay
them back. So, it is literally a wash.
Um, that is the risk. The the Court of
International Trade unanimously found
that the tariffs are illegal. They did
not provide a border adjustment tax that
I was just talking about in 2017 when
they had the opportunity because
Congress doesn't support it and the
courts are finding that the president
doesn't have the authority. So it is a
massive risk for the administration that
I I suspect uh will probably come to a
conclusion in September, October after
the Supreme Court hears the case.
>> At the same time, Henrietta, hasn't
popular opinion changed? I mean, it has
changed at least in markets with the
idea that suddenly people who hated
tariffs at the beginning of the year
saying, "Look, maybe it's a necessary
evil." And in fact, it's going to bring
billions and billions of dollars into
the coffers of the US Treasury at a time
where it really needs the money to
offset some of the spending that's been
going on. Yeah, popular opinion is very
different than the markets. And I would
really uh I think you're nailing
something really important here. The
question that we're all going to pivot
to here is that the market has digested
the fact that these tariffs are going on
and they've acclimated. That's what the
markets do. Consumers hate the tariffs.
Make no mistake about it. 89% in a
recent study from Gallup found that they
were concerned about higher prices,
concerned about consumption. Now, think
about what happens in the next election.
This is the largest tax increase on
American households that has ever been
put into effect. again, $2,500 and it's
extraordinarily regressive, right? Like
44% hikes to footwear and textiles,
things that you need to buy for back to
school or what have you. The next
president gets the opportunity to come
around and take these all off is if if
the courts even allow them to stay on.
So, it's a pretty ripe campaign slogan
for anybody willing to uh lift it up.
>> Do you see any evidence whatsoever that
someone's willing to make that campaign?
>> Not yet. I think it's really early, but
as these tariffs become more and more um
digested by the markets and prices start
to increase, which you know we're always
expecting in the next couple weeks,
which is now very tiresome to say, but
you're starting to see those price
hikes, especially on low um lowcost
goods. So seizing on it as a campaign
talking point, it's an excellent
stimulus. Take the tariffs off, families
get 2500 bucks. It's right there.
>> The effort at the moment is incomplete,
as you know. The two big missing pieces,
Mexico and Canada. Henrietta, what's
happened to Mexico and Canada and where
do you think this one lands?
>> This is the biggest one and my
understanding is that about 60% of goods
coming across the border between US,
Canada and Mexico are going to see
higher rates on August 1st and we need
to not miss the sectoral tariffs here as
well. Lumber just got increased with
their counterveailing duties over the
weekend. I mean this these are real
tariffs on our largest trading partners.
I'm thinking that we're probably more
likely to move with the USMCA on the
original schedule, which means, you
know, comments, business community
interplay in the October, continuing
this through January with another round
of negotiations and then getting some
sort of resolution next summer. I think
we're playing a really long game with
Canada and Mexico and that's going to
keep tariffs on and they're very exposed
to the threat potentially for Mexico of
trans shipping tariffs, uh, which you
pointed out earlier in the show. those
tariff rates so far are on at 40%. Um,
on the Philippines, on Indonesia, on
Vietnam, if Mexico's in the same basket,
why would you, you know, give them an
exclusion? So, I think that's really
something to watch. I think it's going
to be a while.
>> When you put all this together,
Henrietta, it seems like the market's
moved on. It's not the worst case
scenario. So, it's a really good
scenario. That's at least what the
pricing seems to be suggesting. What are
companies saying to you? How are they
managing through this? How many of them
are just ignoring it and saying
whoever's going to come on next in terms
of uh being president is just going to
take tariffs off or uh adjust policy in
a different way?
>> Their temperature setting right now.
There's no consensus as yet. If I talk
to Republicans, they'll say, you know,
nobody took off the section 301 tariffs
against China. Why do you think they'd
take off the AIPA tariffs? Number one,
they're totally different uh animals.
One was targeted specifically at China,
which the United States generally
believes is a um sort of an enemy and
and a risk. and something that needs to
be controlled and the populace of the
United States is behind that. I believe
last I checked 83% of Americans view
China as the number one or some sort of
a negative nefarious actor on the US
economy. So there's support for that.
These are global tariffs. I don't know
anybody that wants to tariff the EU um
or you know has a hard time with Italy
and France and wants their wine to be
more expensive. So what the corporations
are trying to do right now is understand
what does come next. The sectoral
tariffs therefore the most important. If
you're going to have a 232 tariff on
that's going to stay. We have seen that
across many administrations and it can
be increased and it's not subject to
court oversight. So the 232 tariffs and
those sectors need to start planning for
long-term tariffs on the yaipa front.
You know the everyday stuff that's
coming across. There's no reason to
expect continuity there.
>> No one should have a problem with Italy.
Let's be clear about that. Henrietta,
thank you. Henry Traer Va Partners.
>> Bold words.
>> Neutral. What a shock. Neutral talking
words from Jonathan Pharaoh. Up next on
a program, look what's here. The English
Premier League trophies arrived. The
CEO, Richard Masters, joins us next.
Plus, Danny Burgerer with your morning
movers live from New York. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
Five days of gains on the S&P 500. Five
consecutive all-time highs. We're
looking for day six. Equity futures
positive by 0.1% on the NASDAQ 100 up by
0.3. With two hours until the cash open
with your morning movers is Danny
Burger. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. As a result of the deal with
the US and EU, we're seeing American
energy companies outperform this
morning. A lot of LG producers like EQT,
like Venture Global up as much as 6.5%.
$750 billion is the amount that the EU
will be spending as part of this deal on
US energy. The EU saying it will help
relieve some of their reliance on
Russian energy. At the same time, we're
also seeing Tesla, those shares,
rallying in the pre-market this morning,
reaching a $16.5 billion agreement with
Samsung to build next generation AI
chips for the car maker. It'll be at its
Texas foundry. Elon Musk saying that
that's really just the tip of the
iceberg. the actual amount that they're
going to be producing is likely to be
much more and it he said it's hard to
overstate how consequential it will be.
Finally wrapping things up with some
sellside action for you. Nike getting a
boost from JP Morgan this morning moving
the stock to overweight from neutral. A
$93 price target on it. It's at $79 in
the pre-market this morning up 3.8%. JP
Morgan saying that it's seen some of its
inventory clear out less discounting is
to come and its product innovation is
starting to finally pick up. John,
>> Danny, thank you. With the latest, more
from Danny in the next hour. On our
radar this morning, our top story, the
US and EU reaching a trade deal over the
weekend. The EU facing 15% tariffs on
most of its exports, including autos.
The race set to take effect on President
Trump's August 1st trade deadline.
>> Yeah, one of the most difficult things
is understanding messaging from reality
because what you're hearing from
European Commissioner uh trade
commissioner this morning is there still
is room for negotiation and potentially
could get a zero for zero type of tariff
agreement. more potential items put on
that. That said, it does seem like a win
for the United States and that's
certainly reflected in the currency
market with the euro weakening today
versus the dollar.
>> Without a doubt. Without a doubt. But
there are two questions that remain
unanswered. The push back we will get
from European member states in the weeks
to come. One, two, how binding these
investments and purchase agreements
actually are. And those questions apply
not just to the Europeans, but to the
Japanese as well.
>> What are these agreements? I think that
you can take that a step further and say
what are the parameters for some of
these investment funds that we've heard
now from Japan the 500 billion dollars
invested in the US now the 600 billion
promised by the European Union what do
those look like what is that fund we
don't really have a lot of details
around that
>> these are the talks in Scotland over the
weekend these are the talks taking place
right now in Stockholm Sweden the US and
China kicking off a fresh round of trade
talks today officials looking to extend
their tariff agreement beyond a mid
August deadline most people in this
market believe we will at a 90-day
extension.
>> Yeah. So, the key question is what are
the parameters of that extension? What
are the chips on the table, so to speak?
This comes alongside questions around
when Xiinping and Donald Trump are going
to meet and then questions about what
the long-term relationship looks like,
right? Ultimately, what are we working
toward at a time where we haven't really
established what we want the
relationship to be and whether there is
a real national security threat when it
comes to certain aspects of this or
whether there's not.
>> You've given a nod to our next story
twice now.
>> Exactly. sectoral tariffs, what happens
with chips, what happens with pharma as
well and a whole host of other sectors.
>> Yeah. And this is a reason why people
are watching the investigation into the
semiconductor uh into the semiconductor
space so closely because ultimately that
is going to set the tone for what type
of national security the risk is coming
from China. And it also sets the tone
for a lot of the big earnings that we
get this week given the fact that right
now we're looking at some of the biggest
tech companies that could be affected by
some of these curbs. That right there is
the latest on the trade front. Let's
turn to sports. Deep breath can calm
down now. The world's most watched
football league making its way across
the Atlantic. The English Premier League
is playing six matches for soldout
crowds in New Jersey, Chicago, and
Atlanta this summer. The series kicking
off this past weekend with Manchester
United beating West Ham. Joining us now,
I'm very pleased to say, the CEO of the
English Premier League, Richard Masters.
Richard, good morning.
>> Good morning. Thank you for having me.
>> Welcome to the studio here in New York.
It's good to see you, sir. Let's just
talk about your involvement in the
sport. I think it's almost 20 years of
direct involvement with the Premier
League. Are you surprised by the amount
of growth we've seen? Not in the UK.
Forget all of that. The amount of growth
we've seen in America.
>> Yep. 20 years next January at the
Premier League. Um 7 years as CEO in
December. Uh watch the Premier League
gets bigger and bigger and bigger. Um
and out here in the US, we've got a
fantastic uh broadcast relationship with
NBC. We've opened offices here in New
York. We're committed to growing the
game. um about 30% of the US population
are interested in soccer or football and
about twothirds of those follow the
Premier League and that's a brilliant
foundation which to grow. That's what
reason we're out here with six of our
teams playing matches to give our our
fans a taste of the Premier League.
>> As a Britain New York, I can tell you
the experience of NBC is amazing. I get
to wake up on a Saturday morning on a
Sunday and I get to watch absolutely
everything. That's not the experience in
the UK with Sky. It's a very different
experience. You only get to watch so
much. Why do we get to see so much more
through NBC than maybe fans in the UK
get to see at home?
>> Well, in the UK, um the matches between
two and five o'clock on a Saturday
afternoon, which is the traditional time
to go and watch football in the country,
aren't broadcast. So, it's not just the
Premier League, the NFL as well, aren't
broadcast. That's part of the decision
we've made. It's a long-term commitment
to what's called Article 48. But
anywhere else outside of the UK, it's
all 380 games um throughout the season
you can watch. And of course, here in
the US, as you say, there are millions
of people getting up on a Saturday and
Sunday morning watching their favorite
team, and you can sit there from 7:00
a.m. till lunchtime, watch the entire
thing if you want to. Uh, and that's a
brilliant thing for us.
>> Does it kind of hurt your soul to say
soccer instead of football?
>> Not at all. I I think they're
interchangeable. When I grew up, I grew
up in the Midlands, I watched soccer,
soccer Sunday on um on star soccer
rather on a Sunday lunchtime. Um, so
it's interchangeable.
>> Yeah. At this point though, does it
dilute the players ability to really
commit to not only a team but a season
if they're playing at all times in all
places and their bodies have to be
exhausted at a certain point? No,
>> that's true. I mean, there is a starter
of players at the top of the game who
are playing a lot. Um, and it's a big
issue within the game. The Premier
League obviously since 94 has been 20
clubs, 380 games August to May, but
we've seen grad the gradual expansion of
European competitions. uh and now uh
global competitions as well. Next summer
the US will host the World Cup. Um it's
first time 48 teams and of course in the
last summer we've seen the Club World
Cup, a brand new competition put into
the calendar. Um and I think that from
my perspective, not just as CEO of the
Premier League, but also my other role
as chair of the World Leagues
Association, which is about representing
domestic leagues around the world. you
there has to be a big conversation now
about how you balance this out properly
and make sure that players are looked
after and that these competitions are
additive and not subtractive from the
competitions they bump into.
>> Well, let's have that conversation right
now. I can speak as a fan. I hate it. I
don't want to see an expanded FIFA Club
World Cup. In fact, for for most fans of
the English Premier League, we get
annoyed whenever there's an
international break. We don't want to
see more tournaments. What we loved was
just the cadence of every two years you
had a major tournament. the Euros, the
World Cup, the Euros, the World Cup. Why
have we gotten away from that? And
what's your message to FIFA to UEFA? As
in the minds of many fans, they just
seem to be chasing money at the expense
of the game and maybe the players
health.
>> Well, you the message is talk. Um, you
know, there is actually strong dialogue
between domestic leagues in Europe and
UEFA about competitions and that's a
that's a coalition of stakeholders,
clubs, leagues, club, um, players as
well talking about it. that dialogue
doesn't happen at the top of the game
and it should do. So that's the key
message. Sit down and talk to the
leagues, talk to all the stakeholders
and find a way through all of this
because it has to it has a limit. Uh and
I think we've gone past it. We've gone
past saturation point. My job obviously
is to look after the Premier League and
and we're going we're going great guns.
Thank you very much. And I want the
purity of that competition to remain.
Um, I want people to be able to enjoy
that enjoy their football because I want
the best players on the pitch all the
time in the Premier League and not
worrying about how to how to balance
everything out.
>> Let's talk about the purity of the game.
It's a polarizing topic and very
controversial as you know. Manchester
City in this number 115, the number of
charges for alleged breaches of
financial regulations. What can you
share with us this morning about where
things stand?
>> Nothing uh is the is the honest truth.
Um the case was heard last year and we
wait for the decision to be made. Uh we
can't hurry the people whose job it is
to make that decision and it will happen
when it happens and I don't know when
it's going to be. Um we'll find out with
everybody else.
>> What's your sense of why it's taking so
long?
>> I don't know and uh it's difficult for
me to speculate. I'm sorry.
>> It's just difficult for a lot of people
in the game who follow the game to see
how quickly things concluded with a club
like Everton and how long it's taking
with a club like Manchester City. And
some people can't help but conclude that
maybe different clubs are being treated
differently because of the status they
have in the Premier League.
>> Yeah. Well, I I do understand the
frustration um and share some of those,
but in the end um this process is very
different. These allegations are very
different than that. They just said new
the the the charges themselves and the
number of them. But I can't really get
into it. I I really can't talk about
>> you can't get into the details, but do
you think it's hurting the reputation of
the league? Well, the the at the center
of this is a football competition, and I
think people want want to basically
watch the football, that's the that's
the main event. Uh, and when you get
dragged into whatever it may be, um, um,
financial affairs, I think people think
that maybe there's something going wrong
here. I do accept all of that. Um, but
competition remains strong. The
economics of the Premier League remains
strong. and u fundamentally as long as
we can put the best players on the pitch
and give people a fantastic competition
I think we can get through this period.
>> I've been an outsider and I've been
studying the rules of the game and the
sustainability rule that kind of led to
this investigation into Man City and
this idea that a club has to bring in
and just spend the same amount of money
that it brings in. Do you think that
that rule has become outdated or
uninforcable in any kind of real time
way? So, if you're talking about the
financial regulations within football,
our clubs are all really subject to two
sets of regulations. Our own, the
profitability and sustainability rules
and also UEFA's rules. Um, so they're
looking at two sets of financial rules
to comply with. And essentially in in
England, um, our rules are there. Um,
it's a spending rule really about
profitability. So, there are there is
the ability to invest and that's what we
want our clubs to do. We've got a
fantastic set of owners that invest in
stadiums, in fan experience, and players
on the pitch. And that's what we want.
We have a we have a, as I said, a great
set a great set of owners that want to
invest. And so there has to be a limit
ultimately uh to ensure that we've got a
competitive league, which we do have. So
I think when owners look at investing in
the Premier League, they can see that
you can aspire to do better in the
league. We're now seeing more more clubs
um qualifying for European competition.
Our clubs are incredibly successful in
Europe. That's all down to investment.
So there has to be a limit ultimately on
what you can spend. Clubs have all
signed up to these rules um and we are
enforcing them.
>> Well, how much does the Saudi league
really kind of I don't know skew the
financials of this in a way that creates
a sort of complicated dynamic?
>> Um well the the Saudi League is is is is
in investment phase. Um Saudi league's
been around for for many decades. Uh and
now we're seeing local investment into
that and they're becoming very active in
the marketplace. sometimes that good for
Premier League clubs. Sometimes they
take clubs take players that Premier
League clubs want to sign. It's just a
new dynamic. Um, and we have to observe
it and we have to cope with it.
>> Richard, you've been generous with your
time. We appreciate it. Thanks for
dropping by.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Thank you very much for being here.
Richard Masters there, the English
Premier League CEO. Just getting some
live pictures out of Turbury, Scotland.
The president of the United States is
welcoming Sakir Stalmer following a big
agreement with the Europeans over the
weekend. And I imagine the British prime
minister is feeling a whole lot better
about the deal that he got a few months
back.
>> Yeah, it seems like it's an unheard of
10% given the fact that 15% is the new
floor. And it does raise the question
about sort of Brexit and what that did
for the European Union versus Britain
and the deal that they were able to get.
I wonder what the tenor of that disc
discussion is going to be at a time
where they have a much easier sort of
conversation to have.
>> What's Star's golf game like? Do we
know? I don't think we know. I think
he's a football guy. Arsenal fan, isn't
he? Yes,
>> big Arsenal fan.
>> Does he play golf?
>> Don't know.
>> Try and figure that out.
>> I guess that we'll find out today.
>> We'll get some comments from those two
throughout this morning. Any big
headlines, we'll bring them to you.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahira. Hey,
Yah.
>> Hi, John. Israel has resumed limited
humanitarian aid to Gaza, easing
restrictions over the weekend after
mounting global outcry. The Israeli
military paused some operations to allow
UN convoys in and restored power to a
water desalination plant. As you saw
just earlier, UK Prime Minister Kier
Starmer and President Trump are meeting
today in Turberry, Scotland. And Gaza is
on the agenda. And following on your
football conversation, England defeated
Spain 3 to1 in penalty kicks to win its
second consecutive UEFA Women's Euro
final. Sunday was a rematch of the 2023
Women's World Cup where Spain came out
on top 1 nil. 27year-old
Khloe Kelly scored the decisive goal for
England. And it was a fantastic weekend
at the movies this weekend. Disney's The
Fantastic 4 First Steps opened at number
one in North America with $118 million
in ticket sales. The Marvel movie beat
out DC Studio Superman, which has
grossed nearly $290 million since
opening earlier this month. Meanwhile,
Universal's Jurassic World's Rebirth
came in third place. Dr. Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. Appreciate it. Up next
on the program, building pressure for a
rate cut.
>> It looks like it's about 3.1 billion.
Went up a little bit or a lot. Uh so the
2.7 is now 3.1.
I'm not aware of that. Yeah, they it
just came out.
>> Yeah, I haven't heard that from anybody.
>> Up next on the program, Ed Alhuseni of
Colombia Thread Needle, live from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
happening right now in Tbury, Scotland.
The president of the United States,
Donald Trump, alongside the British
Prime Minister, Sakir Stalin. Odd
situation here that it's actually the
president welcoming the British prime
minister in Scotland at his golf course.
>> Well, and it comes at a time where
essentially every European leader is
lining up to say, "Thank you. Can I have
another?" And right now, Kier Star Armor
is saying, "Thank you for only 10%."
What we're hearing from President Trump
is we're in great shape with the United
Kingdom and goes on to cheer that
relationship at the same time that they
now have a deal with the European Union.
>> We want to make Stala happy. Now Sakir
Starama is having a very difficult time
with it in the UK across several
dimensions, immigration, the broader
economy. But on this one, on this
specific issue, I think he can claim a
win relative to what we've seen with the
Europeans and with Japan. If you
remember all the way back when we got
that agreement, people were talking
about 10%'s the floor. Now it's not the
floor. They actually did get special
status. 15% is the floor. And now the UK
is looking even more special at this
moment when they're being welcomed to
their own country at a golf course.
>> Up to speed on this?
>> Not really, but okay. Yes,
>> that's the situation taking place in
Scotland right now. Those two should
hold some kind of a gathering a little
bit later in the hour in the next hour.
So, we'll bring you some headlines if we
get them. Equity futures on the S&P 500
positive by a tenth of 1% just about
hanging in there on the NASDAQ up by
0.3. Huge week coming up for earnings,
for data, and for the Federal Reserve
under surveillance this morning.
Building pressure for a rate cut.
>> We're just taking a look at what's
happening. You know, it's a it's a tough
construction job. It looks like it's
about 3.1 billion. Went up a little bit
or a lot. Uh so the 2.7 is now 3.1.
>> I'm not aware of that. Yeah, it just
came out.
>> Yeah, I haven't heard that from anybody
at the Fed. You're including the Martin
renovation. You just added in a third
building is what that is. That's a third
building.
>> No, but it's a building that's being
built.
>> No, it's been it was built 5 years ago.
>> It's part of the overall work.
>> Well, I'd love him to lower interest
rates.
Other than that, what can I tell you?
>> It was like an episode of The Office
just last week over at the Federal
Reserve. Season two coming up a little
bit later this week on Wednesday.
expected to hold rates steady this week
despite rising pressure from the White
House and President Donald Trump. Ed
Husseini of Columbia Thread Needle
writing, "I think we should have better
odds that the unemployment rate remains
stable and inflation uncertainty delays
Fed cuts to 2026."
Ed joins us now for more. Ed, welcome to
the program, sir. That delay to Federal
Reserve interest rate cuts. Let's work
through that together. A lot of people
think that by the time we get to
September, they'll be reducing interest
rates. If you think they're going to be
wrong, essentially you're making the
case that in the next few months we'll
have some very different looking data.
What do you expect to see?
>> You know, I think roughly the case rests
on three key pillars. One is that we
build confidence that the inflation
story is going to be stable. We're still
heading towards 2% in uh the short to
medium term. The second is that the
unemployment um starts to pick up and
risks to unemployment start to rise. And
then the third story is we're really
continuing the process we began last
year, normalizing rates in line with an
economy that's normalizing in the
background. And I think on all three
fronts, the the room is continuing to
get smaller for them um to pull the
trigger on these cuts in September.
>> And if that's the case, what happens if
they do cut rates in September? Let's
say they cut rates twice this year as
markets are expecting. Does that lead to
uh yields rising at the long end,
inflation expectations over a longer
term creeping higher?
Yeah, I mean that's that's the trickiest
story. In many ways, if they ease into
an economy that's perhaps stable or even
accelerating, then the odds that those
long rates rise um I think increase
significantly. We're going to replay
what we saw in the fourth quarter of
2024.
um if they're cutting and the economy is
is getting weaker in the background uh
then of course I think the story is
quite different and long rates can can
continue to perform.
>> What do we need to see to really answer
that question? Are we just in the dark
right now? Uh just uh trying to fish and
come out with uh proclamations.
Yeah, I mean for me the labor market is
absolutely core to this and in many ways
labor market data has been um more
difficult to read because the underlying
supply side story is changing so rapidly
with immigration. And so focusing on
something quite core like the
unemployment rate is going to be key.
And so if the unemployment rate is
stable for the in the second half of the
year, the odds that those cuts are are
timed well u I think continue to
diminish. it makes a lot more sense to
cut next year if the unemployment rate
is stable.
>> And in the statement they refer to it as
solid. Do you think they can repeat that
statement this week?
>> I think absolutely. You know, so far in
the first half of the year, the labor
market has been characterized by
incredible stability. The unemployment
rate remains right around, you know,
4.1%.
Um, now last year unemployment was
deteriorating. The labor market was
slowing much more rapidly. we saw that
increase in the unemployment rate in in
the course of the year and they they
pulled the trigger on 100 basis point
cuts to stabilize that story. You know,
that catalyst isn't with us this year.
And so what you're doing if you're
cutting rates is you're looking ahead
and making the case that look, the labor
market is okay now, but the risks are
rising that it's going to slow. And you
know, so far this year, the data really
hasn't validated that yet.
>> Governor Wallace says it's a labor
market on the edge. Lisa's been asking
all morning, how much disscent will we
actually see on Wednesday? There's two
governors in mind. Do you think we could
see some more?
>> Uh, I think it'll be difficult. I I
think Governor Waller has has
telegraphed his view very effectively.
Um, I think it's going to be in line
with some of the dissents we saw back in
2019. Um, and you know, there is a case
to be made there, but I think it's
really the minority at this stage making
that case. At this point, when you look
forward at the politicization of the
Federal Reserve, do you think it's noise
for markets or do you think that it will
become much more front and center on
Wednesday in a way that could influence
how the markets respond?
>> My sense is really it's a story for next
year when that new Fed chair takes uh
control of the committee. Um if the bias
is to ease rates when the economy
remains strong, again, if the economy is
accelerating next year, that's going to
be deeply problematic uh for markets.
And again, that's something that's
that's a critical risk to the long end
of the curve. If you're easing rates
into a strong economy, that long end
premium, the inflation premium is likely
to go up. Uh, and again, we're going to
see something that resembles the fourth
quarter of last year. um for this year.
I think despite all the pressure that's
on the Fed and despite the fact that we,
you know, we might see some descent over
the course of the next couple of
meetings, um I think it really isn't
likely to filter into markets more than
than it has so far, which I think is is
really dimminimous.
>> Just before you go, just on the long end
of the curve, can we just finish on
tariffs? The amount of revenue that's
going to be coming into the Treasury
from those tariffs and what it might
mean for the shape of this yield curve.
Yeah, you know, the way I look at it is
tariffs are taxes. To the extent that
we're increasing tariff revenue, we're
increasing the tax burden on the
economy. To the extent that that slows
the economy, it strengthens the case for
cuts uh next year. It means fiscal
policy is adding less to the growth
story um over the coming quarters. Um in
my mind, you know, fiscal policy right
right now is roughly neutral. By next
year, it might be marginally positive as
some of the spending is frontloaded
ahead of midterms. Uh but the more
tariff revenue we raise, the less that
effect is. And so in some ways, higher
tariff revenue makes it easier for the
Fed to uh approach the tax cut story. Um
and I think again this is more a story
for next year rather than this year.
>> Interesting. Ed, thank you sir. Ed
Husani there of Columbia Thread Needle.
Higher tariff revenue may be bolstering
the the case for cuts next year, but
higher tariffs bolstering the case for
them to wait this year. Got all that?
>> No. Um, but your point is well taken,
which is if people talked about yields
going up on the fear of a deepening
deficit in the United States. Well, more
revenues from tariffs should offset that
deficit story and actually give more of
a bullish case to yields coming in even
though in the short term they're
inflationary. We'll keep parsing through
this to make sure to follow right well
the whole year has been
>> the tenure at the moment not doing much
just about unchanged 439 on 10 up next
Abby Yoda of JP Morgan Scott David of
Wedbush Steve Rashido of Missouo Troy
Gayski of FS Investments.
[Music]
We're just observing obviously a pretty
frothy set of markets right now.
>> It is about tech and I think it's
something to keep an eye on.
>> I do think there's a statement of pause
here, right? We have to see these
earnings come through. I think we could
get a little bit of rockiness. I think
the rally can stay for at least through
the summer.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. The third
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance starts
right now. Looking for a sixth
consecutive day of gains on the S&P 500.
Futures this morning just about
positive. Here are your scores. Up by
0.1% on the S&P on the Nasdaq up by 0.3
later this week, Wednesday, Thursday,
four tech monsters, Meta, Microsoft,
Apple, and Amazon. If you want the
earnings, if you want the data and the
Federal Reserve, this payrolls on
Friday, the Fed decision just two days
away.
>> Yeah. the moment of truth this week and
I keep repeating what Julian Emanuel
said because truly you cannot overstate
just how important this week is going to
be. We're heading into the second half
of the year at a time where we have more
certainty and companies have to give
visibility if they don't or if they give
some sort of sense that maybe uh they
don't have a sense of visibility. Watch
that punishment in terms of the uh share
price because we've seen that in a
couple of fronts.
>> That's the earnings. Do you want some
visibility on the data?
>> I would love some.
>> Okay. Median estimate in our survey for
Friday 109. Here's the range. 170 is the
high, zero is the low. Steven Stanley
Santandere thinks we're just going to be
zero for jobs.
>> And I believe he's joining us tomorrow
so he can give us a fuller explanation
of exactly why and whether that's
negative or whether that's just sort of
uh the supply demand dynamic coming into
even balance. Real question is going to
be the unemployment rate. We've been
hearing that time and time and again
from a number of guests this morning and
through the past couple of weeks simply
because we need some real measure to
compare one thing to another given how
much the demographics could be shifting
with immigration.
>> Governor Wallace is going into that
meeting which starts tomorrow making the
case for a rate cut pointing to the
labor market and saying we're on the
edge. At the same time the FOMC is going
around saying the labor market's solid.
How are those two things going to work
this coming Wednesday
>> with a lot of political disagreement and
a lot of tweets and truth socials and
that's going to be a real question and
sort of how will the market look through
that because right now the drama has
made for really good TV and I swear I do
think that Donald Trump and Jerome
Powell should have a television show
together because that was really high
drama but besides that you're not seeing
the drama bleed into markets. I do
wonder how you understand a labor market
that's solid with entry-level jobs that
really are just not getting filled.
People who are graduating from college
have one of the lowest hiring rates in a
very long time.
>> I don't know how you square these
things.
>> Would you like to see a repeat of last
week this Wednesday?
>> I just have that news conference. Two of
them in there.
>> From like a pure market perspective, no.
But from a drama perspective, I mean, we
keep repeating it from last week because
it is that good. So, you know, it was
pretty impressive TV.
>> I understand there's some legal
proceedings ongoing to try and open up
the Federal Reserve meeting this coming
Wednesday and make it public. Do you
have any idea how boring that would be?
>> The news conference is boring enough.
>> I was thinking
>> any idea how boring watching that would
be for hours on end?
>> I think that it's more exciting to think
that there's some sort of collusion and
exciting cabal that gets together to say
what we saved to Donald Trump, but
instead it's, you know, people parsing
through the beige book. You really want
to see that for two hours? I don't need
that live on a Tuesday and a Wednesday,
that's for sure. Maybe you want the
option sort of on demand in this world.
On demand
on demand that Bloomberg on demand on
demand. I'd pay I'd pay serious money
for Bloomberg on demand.
>> Oh, of course you would obviously, but
like what about live streaming?
>> Live streaming that I think a lot of
people would. I think that it would be
really cool.
>> Make it happen. Okay, I'll try.
>> Futures right now in the S&P positive by
a tenth of 1%. Coming up this hour, Abby
Yoda of JP Morgan as equities add to a
recordbreaking rally. Scott David of Wed
Bush with Max 7 earnings on deck. Steve
Rashuto about 25 minutes away of Missouo
ahead of a busy week of economic data.
We begin this hour with our top story,
the race to strike trade deals with the
United States. Joining us now is
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall. Tyler, making
a deal with the EU. Who's next?
>> Yeah. Hey John. Well, there's still a
long list of trading partners that need
to announce a trade framework with the
US. We know that some of those trading
partners that have long been prioritized
in these talks, those countries that are
geographically close to China, such as
South Korea or India perhaps, are still
waiting to clench a deal. In fact, the
USR Jameson Greer in an interview
earlier this morning said that they were
still working towards trying to get
India done by that August 1st deadline,
but still big sticking points remain
particularly when it comes to market
access for US agricultural goods. And
then we have to keep in mind that some
of these countries that have been on
totally separate negotiating tracks like
Mexico and Canada for example still
haven't reached a deal either. Now those
tariffs were implemented back in
February on uh concerns about the border
and fentanyl. They were not part of the
so-called reciprocal tariffs on
liberation day. Yet they have still
found themselves in line with this
August 1 deadline. Then of course lastly
is China which is on a completely
separate third track here. We know that
those negotiations are kicking off the
third round for negotiators later today
in Stockholm.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest. Tyler,
thank you. Looking for those trade talks
in Stockholm to conclude with maybe a
90-day extension to the conversation.
Then you get to Friday. If you're not in
negotiations right now, you're just
getting a letter, aren't you, from the
president and it's got a number on it.
>> All I can say is that how many letters
have you gotten from a lot of analysts
on Wall Street saying deadline in
quotes? I mean, how many people are
treating these deadlines like actual
deadlines? Are we really worried about
the penguins? I mean, at a certain
point, which are the true trade partners
that are going to matter with the United
States that are going to have
non-negotiable letter type levels?
>> Everything's negotiable to an extent.
>> Exactly.
>> Obviously, but it feels like once you
secured a deal with Japan, with the EU,
once you've basically concluded you're
going to kick the can with China for 90
days, this is kind of it for everybody
else. At least that's the sense I've got
of things.
>> I would agree. Unless there's some sort
of strategic significance with respect
to trans shipments from China. Unless
there's some kind of real reliance on a
specific nation, it will be over, which
is the reason why this market's moving
on.
>> With two exceptions, Mexico, Canada,
which could take another 18 months.
>> It's going to be fun. I think that
that's what this market's
>> a lot of fun in store. Here's the view
on Wall Street. Abby Yoda of JP Morgan
Global Wealth Management writing,
"Investors have turned risk on. Fears
over trade and policy setbacks are
fading as investors focus on strong
fundamentals." Abby joins us now for
more. Abby, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Question we've been asking all morning.
We know what the tariffs are for certain
nations. Do we fully understand the
consequences?
>> Well, I mean, I think we on a relative
basis. Yes. Like if we're thinking about
where we were in April versus where we
are today and you're thinking about, you
know, from a corporate standpoint when
we were going through one Q earnings and
you had all these different scenarios
and these worst case scenarios in terms
of what kind of hit they were going to
take from tariffs, like that left tail
risk has certainly moved, you know, more
to the right. So I think that's in
particular very good for for, you know,
the stock market generally speaking.
>> You said strong fundamentals. Are you
confident the worst of the data is
behind us and not in front of us? No, I
think No, and I think the market knows
that. I think the market knows that
we're going to see this. You're see you
see it in consensus estimates, right?
Like on your Bloomberg terminal in terms
of what happens in terms of economic
growth as we head through the rest of
the year. That's relatively well
understood. What the market is thinking
and looking at is okay, this is a blip,
right? we have this second half
weakness, but then we go into 2026 where
we have the reconciliation bill, which
is really like a cash boost in terms of
thinking about corporates, and we've got
like pretty solid earnings so far,
right? From a profit margin perspective,
we're really hanging in there. We're
still above the long-term average in
terms of profit margin. So, in terms of
company performance, yes, you might see
a slowdown in economic growth, but
you're still seeing really like
resilient results from companies.
>> So, why isn't your current base case
higher for the S&P 500? It's currently
at a range of 5900 to 6,300. We're
surpassing that. We're almost at 6,400.
>> Yeah. And so, you know, we do have a
bull case and that is 7,000 to 7100. And
it feels like we're inching closer to
that, right? Like when you put all of
these pieces together, again, you take
out that left tail risk as it relates to
liberation day levels. You have this
really strong, you know, we're in the
middle of 2Q earnings. Coming into the
season, expectations were for four to 5%
growth. We're already close to 7% growth
with what's reported. We obviously have
a, you know, 30% of market cap reporting
this week, but it's been really solid.
So, you know, as we get these trade
deals and we think about, you know, the
the scenario analysis, it does feel like
we're leaning closer to that bull case.
>> It seems like that's what we're hearing
from Mike Wilson over at Morgan Stanley,
John Stoultzfist over at Oppenheimer
came out and raised his expectation uh
for the S&P year end target. I just
wonder what we could hear this week that
would give you that confidence. Is it
some sort of projection into 2026 given
that that's when the strength is
expected to resume?
>> I don't know if it's necessarily a pro
like I we're not anticipating because
you don't typically have companies do
that in the middle of the year, but it
does seem like there's more of a focus
on 2026 right now than there is
historically when you're in July and
August. But I think you know if you have
meggaap companies that are comp
committing more capital to their AI
spend and this is a cross sector, right?
Like we're thinking about it not just
within within tech. I think that in it
of itself lends it to like more clarity
on what 2026 could look like, right?
Because if more companies are spending
on this productive capacity in terms of
technology, that bodess well in terms of
2026.
>> Do we need the Fed to cut?
>> Well, I don't I'm surprised that like
you're starting to see more of this
cyclical rebound in terms of price
performance without that. Like that felt
like it was necessary in terms of
getting that, you know, because
manufacturing's been basically in a
recession for three years. what gets
that rest of the market, that part of
the market working. And I mean, think
about it. You have these commitments to
spend in terms of, you know, across the
board in terms of sectors. Like, let's
use pharmaceuticals for example, $300
billion in commitments to reshore to
rebuild manufacturing, which in and of
itself could create more of a a tailwind
for industrial capacity despite higher
rates.
>> You've talked about how forgiving the
investors are going to be of potentially
weak data in front of us. I just wonder
how relevant it will be if the Fed isn't
cutting interest rates. We just heard
from a guest 15 minutes ago said no cuts
for 25. We've heard that from other
banks as well from Morgan Stanley from
Bank of America. Is that relevant to
your bullish view on the equity market?
>> Yeah. So we do in our base case have two
cuts this year and you know other
another two through the the h the first
half of next year. So there is we do
have an easing bias which in of itself
is very important when we're thinking
about valuations for the S&P 500. Right?
You have you have the combination of
strength and earnings growth with an
easing bias, right? Like I don't think
anyone's debating right now whether or
not the Fed's going to hike. Like I
don't think that's really on the radar.
It's just a matter of when they cut that
can really I think sustain valuations
from here.
>> What's more important for you this week
just to sum it all together? The Fed
meeting, the earnings or the economic
data.
>> I think earning I mean I'm an equity
strategist so earnings are going to be
very important. Um obviously that's
going to be more idiosyncratic depending
on what what industry then. And and then
I think, you know, I really do think the
employment data obviously, you know,
that's the main focus right now. And it
was interesting when you were talking
before you were saying like, oh, but the
labor market's solid, but it's weakening
at the like those two things are
happening, right? Like that the labor
market remains solid, but you are seeing
some weakening at the margin. So
thinking about what happens with with
labor market data this week, but you
know, unemployment claims have been
pretty tame um over the past couple
days.
>> What's your pick this week?
>> I would pick earnings, actually. Yeah.
Because I think that employment we're on
the same team. Yeah. I think
>> because you're sick of the Fed chat or
because it's more important.
>> Well, yes.
>> Yeah. You guys didn't sound excited
about the
>> Well, I just feel like the market isn't
that excited about it and we already
know it's going to happen. I just feel
like the earnings really is a different
story. It's the AI sort of secular
change that is underpinning the strength
that so many people have gotten behind
and that's pretty exciting to me right
now.
>> Apple front and center for me.
>> Exactly.
>> That company's in a tough spot right
now. leadership is arguably as well in a
way they haven't been for a long time.
>> They've been on the back foot when it
comes to AI. They've got this situation
with China and Tim Cook no longer
diplomat and chief. So then all of a
sudden you have a real problem when it
comes to relationships with uh the
president.
>> Jens Wang the man in charge apparently
foreign policy as well on certain issues
too.
>> Evidently what's the difference?
>> Just to finish Abby on the international
backdrop this preference for
international over the US over the past
several months in the midst of all this
trade volatility. What is the argument
now for superior returns in a place like
Europe?
>> Well, so I think if we focus again if
we're thinking about 2026 rather than
2025, the bull case is that for for
Europe versus the US is that you're
starting to see a convergence in that
growth rate, right? like there's been a
really wide like divergence in terms of
earnings growth in the US versus Europe.
But now you have this domestic story as
it relates to fiscal spend mostly
stemming from Germany that could really
propel like we're not calling for that
gap to close. But if you see it, you
know, shrink that in and of itself could
could uphold valuations and create more
of a of a um tendency for investors.
>> They're going to borrow in the debt
market to fund US defense players now
based on the agreement over the weekend.
>> Let's see. Let's see. And frankly,
everyone wants to go to their debt
market because it's going to be the new
reserve currency, right?
>> Apparently.
>> Yeah, that's what we hear.
>> Sure. Abby, thank you. Appreciate it.
Thank you very much. Abby Yoda there, JP
Morgan, Global Wealth Management. I
don't think we've seen the end of the
fallout from the weekend from the
Europeans. There's going to be push
back. The Spanish, the Spanish
government joined us in Washington DC a
few months ago and referred to the
Chinese as allies. Do you think they're
going to be willing to get on board to
accept a 15% tariff and then go after
Chinese over capacity? I certainly
didn't get that sense. Did you?
>> No. And we've already heard some
disscent coming from France in
particular and a couple different
ministers there. I do wonder how much
this does threaten some of the unity of
the European Union and really raised
some of the issues that have blocked
that region from having the sort of
economic power that they should based on
some of their productive capacity.
>> Euro dollar this morning negative by 3/4
of 1% 11655.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yhierra. Hey
yhara. Hi John. President Donald Trump
speaking in Turberry, Scotland minutes
ago alongside UK Prime Minister Kier
Starmer. Trump telling reporters, quote,
"We are in a great shape with the UK and
we want to make Starmer happy."
Potentially talking about trade there.
The president also said he discussed
Gaza with Starmer at their bilateral
meeting and said he won't take a
position on a Palestinian state.
Meanwhile, US and Chinese officials are
meeting in Sweden today to extend their
trade truce beyond its August 12th
deadline. It will be the third meeting
in less than three months between
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessins and
Chinese Vice Premier Hila Fun. A
breakthrough during these talks could
set the stage for a meeting between
Trump and Xiinping later this year. And
the heat is on here. More than 132
million people across the central and
eastern US are facing blistering
temperatures this week with rising
humidity making it feel even worse and
putting a strain on the energy grid.
This has been the third hottest July on
record. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John Yhara, appreciate it. More from
Yhara in about 30 minutes. Up next, the
morning calls. Plus, Scott David of Wed
Bush with Max 7 earnings on deck. That
conversation up next.
[Music]
We've reached a deal. I think you were
saying this is probably the biggest deal
ever reached in any capacity.
>> We have a deal and it's a big deal. It's
a huge deal. It's 15% tariffs across the
board. all inclus inclusive.
>> I think it's the biggest deal ever made.
Thank you very much. Congratulations.
>> We have a deal between the EU and the
United States of America over the
weekend. That was President Donald Trump
and the European Commission President
Ursula Von Delean. This market feeling
pretty good about that deal worldwide.
Equity futures still positive this
morning on the S&P. Mike Wilson and
Morgan Stanley leaning more towards our
12 month bull case 7200. Drivers are
positive. He says there's many of them.
I'll give you a a select few. AI
adoption, dollar weakness, easy growth
comparisons, pentup demand, and Federal
Reserve interest rate cuts.
>> And he's not alone. We heard that also
from John Stozface upgrading his
forecast for the year, expecting another
20% plus return for the S&P 500. And
just now, Abby Odor from JP Morgan Asset
Management looking closer to their bull
case, which has a seven uh in front of
it. And this really is right now the
story on Wall Street.
>> Crazy how much this story has changed
over the past few months. So the bear
case became the base case back in April
and now the bull case has become the
base case a few months later.
>> I think we cannot underestimate or can't
overestimate how much the deep seat
questions that got overturned with
ongoing tech investment superseded some
of the concern about global tariff uh
slowdowns that we haven't seen
materialized yet in the economic data.
>> Futures positive by 0.2% on the S&P.
That's the price action. Here's some
morning calls. First up, Wolf Research
upgrading Texas Instruments to
outperform, seeing it as well positioned
to benefit from a cyclical recovery.
Your second call from Oppenheimer
raising its price target on a Shopify to
145, citing lower tariff risks. And
finally, UBS raising its price target on
Amazon to 271, citing extensive
investments in e-commerce and cloud
services. That stock is up by 3/4 of 1%.
Let's stick with the Max 7. Another busy
week of earnings coming up with Meta and
Microsoft reporting on Wednesday. Apple
and Amazon on Thursday. Bloomberg's Ed
Lablo joins us from the West Coast for
more. Ed, good morning, sir. Four big
names coming up.
>> Yeah, good morning. And and I think we
know it's just all about tariffs. I was
listening to your last conversation and
you know, Apple is in a difficult moment
right now, John, and how you framed it
in the context of management. Really
interesting. We we know what we're
looking for. You know, in the last
earnings call, they said that in this
current period, tariffs would account
for about $900 million of additional
costs, but for a company that's forecast
to book $62 billion of revenue just on
hardware, I'm stripping out services
there, that doesn't seem like much. But
given the change in in the leadership
and and the shuffling that Tim Cook's
done, does Tim Cook, the operator, kind
of do what Apple's always done, which is
manage the bottom line, find solutions?
So the $900 million uh figure on a
tariff cost gives us something to to
benchmark against to look at plus or
minus and see what they'll achieve. But
what they're doing in China is really
interesting as well because while
globally they they are encountering
these these pecuniary uh penalties and
issues in China. They've done heavy
promotion, heavy discounting to get
themselves back to growth in that
greater China marketplace. So so there's
a lot to discuss.
>> Ed, looking forward to the show at 11
a.m. Bloomberg Technology. Look out for
that alongside Caroline Height. the
latest on big tech and Apple
specifically. Let's talk about Meta.
This from Scott Deford of Wedbush
reiterating his outperform rating on the
company with a 750 price target and
writing the following. Investor
sentiment has remained encouraging for
Meta ahead of Q2 results. The riskreward
is attractive given healthy fundamentals
and optionality related to future AI
monetization. Scott joined us now for
more. Scott, welcome to the program.
What a quarter it's been for Meta. And
I'm not talking about revenue. I I'm
talking about hiring just some big names
and some big money. Do you think
investors will continue to reward them
for that?
>> Well, we're going to find out soon. You
know, I think that I think Topline has
held up remarkably well. You know, this
company is only a few years removed from
uh the removal of IDFA on Apple devices
and um a a very difficult period for the
business and is now kind of clicking on
all cylinders. And um now we're entering
a period with Meta where the company's
very front-footed on spending again
versus that year of discipline it
experienced in 2022. And so it'll be
interesting to see if margins stop
expanding because we're now spending
into the future of AI whether the stock
performance continues to be as strong as
it's been. We're optimistic but um but
but probably a little less optimistic on
Meta here than we've been um more
recently because of that. Scott, it's
fascinating to hear you talk because I
remember when spending was considered a
really good thing. The more they spent,
the better. And then all of a sudden it
was a bad thing. People were wondering
if maybe some of these hyperscalers and
other tech companies were overspending
on AI. It seems like we're shifting back
to where we used to be, where more
spending means more promise, akin to
what we heard from Google. Why is that
not the case?
Well, as you all just so eloquently
described, uh things change, uh monthto
monthth and quarter to quarter. We're
three and a half months removed from
liberation day um when when um all the
strategists forecasts are significantly
lower than they are now. And I think
that the narratives around stocks are
very similar. So if Meta hits a period
where it isn't exceeding investor
expectations for growth, then the spend
concerns become more relevant again. I
mean this company, you know, is a
company that did spend aggressively on
metaverse. A lot of that spend is now
being, you know, infused into their AI
initiatives. But um but stories change,
you know. So I I think right now spend
is good. Um, for the companies that I
spend most of my time on, which are
consumerf facing companies that are
spending all the dollars to the
semiconductor companies, you know,
they're going to have to figure out how
to use AI effectively to drive
sustainable growth or what's viewed
positively right now, which is the spend
will flip again, you know, sometime in
the next 3, six, nine months. Well, you
want
>> and that's what I have my eye out on,
you know, because nobody's really
focused on that for meta and it concerns
me a little bit. So Meta being a
consumerf facing company, Apple is the
primary consumerf facing company. How
much do we expect to learn about them in
terms of what kind of punishment they're
getting on the consumer side given that
they haven't been on the foot for uh on
the front foot when it comes to AI?
So with with Apple, you know, there was
a period where the the lack of a need to
invest in AI was viewed as a good thing
because whatever worked could be layered
into, you know, Apple services and um
and then the capital efficient business
model would would move ahead. And so as
long as consumers are still buying Apple
devices, it didn't really matter. you
know, now there's a view that that Apple
needs to play aggressively in this area
because it's historical reliance on on
Google, you know, for traction that's um
that's now under scrutiny by the
government. And so with Apple, you know,
I think they're they're going through a
bit of a a a narrative shift, which is
difficult to deal with when the multiple
on the stock has gone up uh 3x over the
past decade. So you know you're paying
30 times earnings for um GDP plus growth
and um and and that's the primary
problem here I think is the multiple um
more than that the company is going to
be proven to be deficient uh as we go
into AI because you can already use chat
GPT integrated into Apple um and you
know and and just like you could use
prior generation of search you could you
can now use um AI
without a doubt Scott David there
Wedbush that name is down by almost 15%
year to date.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning to you all. Futures
positive by 0.2% on the S&P with 60
minutes until the opening bound with
your morning movers. Let's cross over to
Danny Burger. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. We're looking at the energy
companies continue to rally this
morning, specifically the LNG producers.
You can see Janeir, EQT, Venture Global,
all of them rallying at least 1.8% after
an agreement between the US and EU over
those tariffs. A part of it, $750
billion from Europe will be poured in to
US energy. Meanwhile, Tesla also on the
move premarket. An announcement that
Samsung would be building chips for them
in Texas. I just wanted to point out
that Applied Materials is also ringing
as part of this story, up 1.8%.
applied material. Their second biggest
customer is Samsung. So, we're seeing
some of the Samsung repier uh suppliers
rallying on that, too. Finally, this
morning, we are seeing a rally coming
from North Southern up 1.8% over the
weekend. Bloomberg reporting that likely
this week, we will hear the finalization
of a deal between them and Union Pacific
to merge. Union Pacific would be buying
Norfolk Southern. I have to say there's
been some reporting on the story at
least for the past two weeks. So, the
stock is up 10% so far this month, which
maybe is why you aren't seeing a bigger
pop, but still that deal may be to come
this week. John
>> Danny, I appreciate the update. Thank
you very much. The opening bell just an
hour away and futures are doing okay.
Busy week of economic data ahead of us
as well, including a Fed decision on
Wednesday and payrolls on Friday. Mike
McKe has a preview. Morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. Well, we're going to
be somewhere in between all sound and
fury signifying nothing and the complete
template for the rest of the year for
Wall Street because we do have a lot of
data. The question is what will it tell
us and how much will it matter in the
end? There is one event to rule them all
and that is of course as you mentioned
the Fed meeting on Wednesday. Uh the
questions there are what do they signal
about September because they're going to
leave rates unchanged. We pretty much
know that. Do we get the distance from
uh Waller and from Bowman or and does
that matter to people? What does Jay
say? Now that's going to be important.
Does the Fed chair have any comment on
the president? And certainly then the
question is what is the president's
comment on what the Fed does on the
economy? Meanwhile, we have a lot a lot
of numbers starting tomorrow with the
conference board confidence numbers. We
also get jolts, but that's a little less
important these days. How are consumers
feeling? We're going to have a sort of a
gut check on whether we think people are
going to keep spending. Wednesday, we
get ADP totally overshadowed by GDP. But
GDP, we're going to have to figure out
what it means because of the trade
distortions that we saw in the first
quarter. How much of a rebound is real?
How much of it is just a rebound and a
uh statistical distortion? Thursday is
uh income and spending and PCE. Uh, of
course we'll want to see what happens
with spending, but PCE is going to be
the question. And right now, analysts
are expecting a slight rise in
inflation, and we'll look under the hood
to see what tariff impacts there are.
And then, of course, Friday, Friday is
the big day, uh, the labor market, jobs
day. Do we see a slowdown in hiring?
That's the forecast. Do we see
unemployment go up? That's not forecast
at the moment. And the question then
becomes, how much does this matter?
because we get a couple more payroll
reports and CPI and PCE reports before
the Fed will next meet in September.
>> Before we get to September, Mike might
have some descent on Wednesday. Can we
just talk about that descent? How much
descent do you actually think we'll get?
>> I suspect that Chris Waller is going to
have to descent. He's put himself in a
position to do that. he could make the
argument that uh if we get GDP or PCE
numbers that suggest that things aren't
all that bad that he's okay with holding
but he wants to cut in September. Mickey
Bowman's a more interesting question
because she had said if the economy
develops in certain ways we could uh see
a uh a cut in July. She didn't promise
or advocated as much as uh the governor
Bo Waller did. So, we'll see and then
it's going to be a question whether the
market thinks it's important or not or
it's been telegraphed so much that it
just gets lost in the noise about
September.
>> Mike McKe, thank you, sir. Looking
forward to the Fed decision on
Wednesday, payrolls on Friday. Steve
Rashuta of Missouo with a bullish
forecast for Friday's payrolls report
calling for 140,000 jobs to be added and
expecting the unemployment rate to tick
up slightly. Steve joins us now for
more. Steve, good morning.
>> Good morning. A
>> sign of the times that maybe 140 is
called bullish now for the labor market.
What's changed?
Well, you are further into a business
cycle. You do have a labor market
shortage. You do have a very very tight
labor market. So, it's hard to continue
to add large scales without causing
certain amount of disruptions and a
dramatic rise in in wages. And I think
companies have been resistant on that. I
also think there's a bit of a technology
shift taking place. I don't think it's
all the AI, but I think it's further
adapt adopting of the traditional uh
types of um technology that we need to
do things in the service industry with
more and more kiosks popping up
everywhere. Uh and I think that helps
the situation as well. So, we're
supplementing labor a little bit with
capital where we can.
>> You have some people like Chris Waller,
Governor, who's expected to descent, the
first descent on the Federal Reserve
since 1993 potentially on Wednesday,
coming out and saying he's seeing
cracks. seeing uh signs that there is
instability in the labor market. Do you
reject that wholesale or do you just say
that that is something that comes along
with the changes in technology and
demographics?
>> Well, I I I do reject it wholesale
because what we see in terms of the
claims numbers, what we see in terms of
the continuing claims numbers leave us
in an environment in which um you know
there's a healthy labor market
environment. we see no evidence
whatsoever in in the data that's less
likely to be disrupted uh by any kind of
uh flow differentials. Uh we also see it
in terms of the jolts numbers which I
don't particularly like but the Fed
seems to like in terms of hiring uh fire
quits going back up in terms of hirings
being healthy in terms of job openings
going back up. So I don't see where
there really are cracks uh in the labor
market. It's a traditional deterior a
slowing that takes place as you get this
far into an environment and oh by the
way adjust it for how tight the labor
market fundamentally is.
>> Given the fact that we do see some sort
of slowing at least at the very least is
there anything inflationary about this
labor market. Is there anything about
wage growth that would give you
confidence that we could see more than
just a one-time price adjustment from
tariffs?
>> Oh, I think you're you're g going
towards a 3% inflation rate and that
that's part of the issue. I think it's
from a labor market tight standpoint. I
don't necessarily have to talk about
tariffs to tell you I think we're going
to 3% inflation. Uh and I question
whether or not tariffs themselves will
be reflected in prices uh substantially
because you look at you know importer
margins, they're very very wide. You
look at exporter margins with the dollar
going down. Um you you've got that
benefit coming through. The little bit
of goods prices we've seen given the
fact that the dollar has depreciated 6
or 7% in the last year. not surprising
you see a little upward movement in in
prices that would typically just take
place from from the currency standpoint.
Um actually it's not even keeping pace
with the currency standpoint because
global deflation is real and that's the
other thing that's offsetting and
helping the um exporter margins widen
because as China dumps all its goods
everywhere else in the world. These
people are sitting there with their raw
material base starting to get cheaper
and therefore they could absorb the
margins more and China is dumping goods
everywhere that they can't dump here
anymore. Over capacity is a massive
issue, particularly for the Europeans.
That's for sure. You said something
really interesting that we need to
unpack. The labor market might be a
reason to be hawkish still. Governor
Waller was in your seat a week, two
weeks ago and made the case the labor
market is increasingly becoming a reason
to be doubbish. So, I just want to give
you some time. What's happening in the
labor market right now that you think is
going to keep them on the back foot?
>> I think the fact that the unemployment
rate is not going to go higher. Um, I
think the, you know, movement to 4.2, to
we've been there and they've done
nothing. But I think when you look at
the fundamentals of the labor market and
what will drive that unemployment rate
up a little bit, you're going to
discover that it's positive signs, an
expansion in the labor force from not
having expanded for two months in a row.
That's going to be the kind of thing
that, you know, gives you an environment
where and that's probably going to wind
up a little bit increase in unemployment
um temporarily. You're going to wind up
in an environment where it's a healthy
expansion in the labor market, help you
be up with adjustment in the
unemployment rate. I don't think there's
cracks in the system. Uh when I look at
the earnings numbers, you know, my
earnings revision tracker is now
positive after being negative for weeks
on end. It's now been positive for three
weeks in a row. Companies are revising
up earnings. Uh we're at uh 10.9% for
this year, 13.9% for next year. These
are solid earnings numbers. These aren't
kind of earning number where people sit
back and say, I have to scale back on
employment dramatically. I think a lot
of the announcements that you're picking
up on in the labor market are taking
place in states where you're required to
announce the layoffs, but you're not
required to announce the net hirings.
And I think that becomes part of the
problem. It's selective decision to look
at the information. And this is a
confirmation bias I think comes from the
dots. If I were to drop Jonathan Pharaoh
out of an alien spacecraft, you had been
studying the Federal Reserve for years.
You'd been studying the US economy for
years, but you didn't know anything
about the dots, and I dropped you in
Arizona right now. Okay? You would come
out of that spacecraft and you would be
like, "Oh, the Fed shouldn't be cutting
rates." But everyone else says the Fed's
cutting rates. Why? Because the dots are
there. So, everyone's biased by the
dots.
>> Other people might cherrypick some labor
market data right now. Lisa talked about
a few things. Entry- level hiring, not
great at all. job switchers not getting
that boost to pay. You talked about the
labor market and the tightness there.
Sufficiently tight to generate stronger
payrolls growth, stronger wage growth.
>> Is this Fed reluctant to cut interest
rates?
>> We've got an hourly earnings number of
0.4%. Um that's again consistent with a
4% rise. A 4% rise is consistent with 3%
inflation. Fed's targets too. We're at
2.7 our estimate for the upcoming PCE
deflator. They're 7/10 off the mark.
3/10 closer to my number. seven ten away
from their number. I I'm sorry. I think
they they're not in a position to cut
rates. And if they were to cut rates, I
think it would be a mistake. And I think
you'd discover exactly what happened
last year when they cut rates. And that
is the long end of the curve would sell
off. So it would be a bare steepener,
>> which at a certain point is a reason why
people are also looking to the auctions.
Sorry I had to say that. I've been
remiss. There are auctions today and
tomorrow to your fiveyear and seven-year
notes, but also the Treasury refunding
announcement that comes on Wednesday
when maybe we get a sense of whether any
of this will matter for the US
government's debt financing costs
because maybe they'll issue everything
in T bills and just retire all of their
coupon, all of their uh Treasury bonds.
I mean, how much are you looking at that
to really understand exactly how this
Treasury Department is going to manage
this and whether it's going to have any
market ramifications? Well, I think
there's lots of reasons to expect bill
issue sizes will go up. Back when I
began, which was ancient history um in
terms of the the market, uh I would one
of the things I had to do was estimate
the treasury's operating cash balance.
So, I had to figure out financing and
how to figure out the net cash flows.
And we assumed every single quarter a
third of all the net new money would be
raised in bills. That's not happening
now. So, yeah, there's more bill
issuance coming relative to coupon
issuance.
>> When you came in, you said that there's
something else that you're looking for.
Well, stable coin is is something that
I'm going to be looking to see whether
or not Treasury Secretary B a if he's
back from his um overseas trip and talks
further about stable coin than he did at
the May refunding announcement. You
know, he made a statement at that point
in time that I think is stuck in a lot
of people's minds and I've visited a lot
of accounts and some of these accounts
are very very interested in the whole
stable coin concept and where do we go
with stablecoin and how much of it will
be financed through bills. Um and he
talked about $2 trillion market cap. You
look at stable coin now, it's about 300
$300 billion. So that's telling you
there's a long way to go. Um, and I
question whether or not if you wind up
with it being done properly, if you
wonder, for example, the Federal Reserve
issuing its own stable coin, could you
then be in a situation where we might
actually replace a lot of our electronic
transfers of wires and replace the Swift
system with something more simple and
less costly for the end result user? And
I know the banks don't want this because
clearly it influences a business they
make a lot of money on, but clearly the
end user wants it. I could imagine a
place like Walmart, Target, Boeing,
these big people, these exporters, these
importers, all sitting there saying, you
know, this would be great. It reduces my
costs. I really think we have to do
this. Right now, we've got lots of
stable coins going in different
directions and trying to do different
things. If we could find one way of
unifying it and putting them all on one
network or creating it all in terms of
one large ability to do it, for example,
with a Treasury coin hosted on a Federal
Reserve website, I think you could get a
very fast adoption of the technology.
>> You think it leads to increased T bill
demand?
>> I do think it leads to increased T- bill
demand because I do not believe it'll
affect currency in circulation, which
affects the rest of the Federal
Reserve's portfolio. Currency in
circulation is a percentage of the
economy as a percent of financial
transactions is not going down. Yes, a
lot of the currency in circulation is
outside the country but we still have
the currency that's in circulation winds
up outside the country but we do have as
a result of that the big Federal Reserve
portfolio and I don't think it changes.
So yes, what happens in terms of stable
coin I think will be a net new demand.
>> Interesting. Happy to catch up with you
this morning.
>> Cheers.
>> A lot of the audience writing in as
well. Steve Rashid of Missouo having a
tremendous year so far. dead on so far
this year on a lot of issues.
>> He's never got caught up in this sort of
uh recessionary call. He's no
>> sound crazy back in April.
>> It did. You know, listen, he did sound
crazy in April. Sorry, but he was right.
And this is something that a lot of
people are looking to the stable coin
issue. We got to get more into that. We
got to get someone on to really go
deeper into this. Well, yeah, but like,
you know, let's go keep going with this.
>> Okay, we'll keep trying. Mike McKe
writes in, thinks I was dropped out of a
spacecraft. So, Michael, thanks for
that. Let's give you an update on
stories elsewhere. this morning with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara. Hey
Yhara.
>> Hi John. Samsung Electronics will
produce AI semiconductors for Tesla.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg the
deal worth$16.5 billion will run through
the end of 2033. Musk confirming it on X
saying the 16.5 billion number is just
the bare minimum and that actual output
is likely to be higher. The win for
Samsung comes as it moves to regain
ground in chip manufacturing.
Meanwhile, Mark Zuckerberg is escalating
his AI hiring spree. The Meta CEO
announcing on threads the company hired
Chat GPT co-creator Shenzha Chow as
chief scientist of its super
intelligence labs. Ciao will set the
research agenda and scientific direction
for the new lab, which focuses on
foundational model and nextgen research.
And Boeing is preparing for factory
workers to strike at its St. Lewis
Defense Hub after they rejected a
contract offer. The International
Association of Machinists and Aerospace
Workers said its members overwhelmingly
voted against the new terms that would
have boosted their wages by 20%. The
union represents 3,200 Boeing defense
workers. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yara, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Up next on the program, we'll
set you up for a big week ahead. Plus,
we'll catch up with Troy Gayski of FS
Investments following five straight days
of equity gains. And we're looking to
make it day six.
[Music]
We're looking at uh deals with three or
four other countries, but for the most
part, you know, I I can't get them to
understand that it's the letter. We just
sent that letter and that letter is, you
know, very universal for most. They'll
probably
receive a letter of clarification or a
confirmation type letter which will go
out sometime during this week prior to
August 1st.
>> The president's trade deadline coming up
on Friday, August 1st. What a week
coming up. As we count you down to the
opening bout, this is your week ahead,
your trading diary. Later on today, US
China trade talks underway in Sweden.
Look out for the outcome from that.
We're all expecting a 60-day extension
or a 90-day extension for these talks.
Coming up tomorrow, earnings from
Starbucks. Wednesday, a Fed rate
decision and Fed share JPL news
conference, plus earnings from Meta and
Microsoft. Thursday, another round of
jobless claims and results from Apple
and Amazon. Friday, payrolls Friday just
around the corner.
>> Yeah, at a time when a lot of people
think that this is a solid labor market,
but some people, particularly on the
Federal Reserve, are starting to see
cracks. That might be the justification
to cut rates as soon as July or at least
those among the dissenting members may
believe so.
>> Steve Rashida pushing back
>> pretty hardcore saying absolutely
there's no reason to and watch out for
the long end to really rip in terms of
yields going higher.
>> How many banks have we got now saying no
rate cuts in 2025?
>> Well, there's Bank of America Morgan
Stanley has come out. Rashido's come
out. There have been a number of people
who have come out and said look there's
no reason Ed al- Husseini is saying the
same thing. There aren't really signs of
it. If you look at the firming up of the
data and the surprise index turning
positive over the past couple of weeks,
>> let's keep it on the market right here
on Bloomberg. Troy Gayeski of Future
Standard writing this. The biggest issue
for equities now that we have roundt on
valuations is materially less upside,
but if anything goes wrong, materially
more downside. Troy joins us now for
more. Troy, welcome to the program. The
capacity to absorb bad news in the year
ahead. Do you think that's diminished
over the past few months? Yeah, it's
certainly diminished greatly since, you
know, the several weeks after the
liberation day plunge because a lot of
the technical strength that came in, you
know, first came from large multi
strategy hedge funds releveraging and
then it came from systematic trend
followers and then last but um partially
least per se would be the risk parity
managers that as as volatility drops
they can lever up their balance sheet
and take more length. So, you know, at
this point it's really all on retail
dollars to continue to flow in to drive
multiples higher. The the point was just
that compared to two, four, six uh weeks
ago or even two years ago, you just have
a lot less technical strength to drive
even further multiple expansion. And we
are materially more expensive today, not
only in the S&P, but also in small and
midcap than we were in 21, you know, and
at the time the Fed was obviously
pumping in a tremendous amount of
liquidity. Um, and we had massive fiscal
stimulus and an economic rebound. At
this point though, Troy, a lot of people
are saying that multiple expansion makes
sense given the technological
advancement that will increase
profitability and efficiency at a number
of big US companies. Why is that not
enough for you? Oh, well, look, I've
been a big proponent for the last
several years, if not longer, that the
combination of having the greatest uh
five companies in the world listed in
the US, um higher uh profit margins,
tremendous free cash flow margins,
combined with a very important technical
of reduced supply of equities, which is
pretty consistent in terms of 40 to 150
basis points of equity supply comes out.
And we still have 4.6% 6% more money
supply relative to nominal GDP than we
did prior to the pandemic should drive
multiples slightly higher over time. So
we're basically 23.6 I think by the end
of next year end of 27 we'll be roughly
25 in the S&P. But that being said, it's
just when you're looking on a relative
basis, you know, do you want to put
additional money to work at these rich
valuations, you know, when you have
other options like private credit or
middle market private equity where
you're getting uh NASDAQ like revenue
growth with much cheaper valuations. So,
it's a time just like in alternatives in
capital markets to be a bit more
differentiating in terms of what
additional capital you're going to put
to work. At this particular juncture in
market and economic history,
>> Troy, this is something a lot of people
have said when they've come on. They've
said, you know, if you want to
diversify, bonds aren't going to cut it
in the same kind of way. The dollar
clearly isn't going to cut it. Gold is
already pretty highly valued, so people
go into alternatives. What makes you
think that the past couple of years
aren't a sort of a sign of what's to
come given the fact that we've seen real
outperforms the public markets actually
to a number of private markets, private
equity in particular, and it's gotten
pretty crowded that space too.
>> Yeah. Well, I I think again there's
nothing wrong with having a healthy
allocation to US large and mega cap,
right? We we again we have tremendous
fundamentals. Valuations are stretched.
The the question from an asset
allocation standpoint is what do you
complement that with? Again, do you
chase US small cap at at 28 times Ford
earnings based on 20% forward earnings
growth, which I don't know any analyst
that thinks that's really going to
transpire. Do you instead chase a
currency trade that drove really
short-term outperformance of uh European
assets for instance international or do
you focus on assets where where you do
have tremendous growth uh NASDAQ like
revenue growth as NASDAQ revenues come
down you know at much more reasonable
valuations approximately 35 to 40% below
um where the Russell 2000 trades on EVA
basis um so that's the fundamental
question right now to your point look a
lot of the draw down vehicles have
struggled because multiples have come in
substantially um and it's been hard to
exit. However, the evergreen vehicles
which have been leaning uh mainly into
secondaries and co-invest have performed
very consistently including 22 which was
the last doozy of a bare market and also
hung in there rather well during
liberation day because when you're
starting at very low valuations and you
have great growth you have tremendous
convexity meaning you have less downside
if things go wrong and more upside if
the economy continues to expand.
>> Hey Troy appreciate the update. Troy
Geski there of feature standard just
getting some live pictures now that I
wanted to send you over to Scotland with
over in Tbury. The president of the
United States alongside the British
Prime Minister Sakir Stalmer opening up
their conversation on Gaza.
>> Yeah, real concern there about famine in
the region and they're talking about
that uh as well as the trade agreement
that they came out with with Trump
saying that their relationship is
unparalleled. Uh what we hear about from
Starmer is saying people in Britain are
revolted by what they're seeing over in
Gaza. So clearly something very
concerning for him and for a lot of
people.
>> They're certainly not alone. As we track
that, we'll bring you the headlines as
we get them right here on Bloomberg TV.
Just want to set you up for tomorrow.
What a lineup. Peter Cher of Academy
Securities, Mike Wilson of Morgan
Stanley leaning into his bullish case
for the rest of the year over the next
12 months. Steven Stanley of Santandere
is looking for zero zero on payrolls on
Friday and the new biggest bull on Wall
Street. John Stous of Oppenheimer
looking for 7,100 on the S&P by year
end.
>> One of the big surprises has been the
upside revisions for a lot of companies
and the upside projections for what's to
come. How much is that behind suddenly
all of the revisions upward by a number
of stock bowls across the street?
>> What a year this has been. Hey, July.
>> A decade. Come on. In the space of what,
two months?
>> Exactly.
>> Feels like two decades.
>> I mean, well, we've gone around the trip
and around the around the world in about
in about a couple weeks. So, there you
go.
>> Phenomenal. Live from New York City this
morning. Good morning to you all. Thank
you very much for choosing Bloomberg TV.
This was Bloomberg Surveillance.